
Overview


                  				University Police
                  			
Each campus police department offers many services and programs to enhance the safety
                  and security of the USF community. Check your campus police department website for
                  safety information and the programs and services available to you.


                        					USF Tampa
                        				 

                        					USF St. Petersburg
                        				 

                        					USF Sarasota-Manatee
                        				 




                  				Environmental Health & Safety
                  			
EH&S promotes the principles of safety, environmental compliance, and risk management
                  and assists the university community in achieving these outcomes through education,
                  hazard assessment, exposure mitigation, and the responsible management of hazardous
                  materials. Visit the EH&S website for more information on their programs and training
                  opportunities.


                        				EH&S Home
                        			 

                        				Fire Safety
                        			 

                        				Hazardous Materials
                        			 

                        				Accident/Near Miss Reporting
                        			 




                  				Facilities
                  			
Facilities Management maintains campus utilities and facilities and responds to emergency
                  situations on this infrastructure.


                        				USF Tampa
                        			 

                        				USF St. Petersburg
                        			 

                        				USF Sarasota-Manatee
                        			 




                  				Human Resources
                  			
Human Resources offers a variety of programs available to USF employees.


                        					HR Home
                        				 

                        					Employee Assistance Program
                        				 




                  				Housing and Residential Education
                  			
Housing and Residential Education offers outreach and safety information specific
                  to residential students.


                        					USF Tampa
                        				 

                        					USF St. Petersburg
                        				 




                  				Student Affairs
                  			
Student Affairs assists in the well-being of students through various on-campus and
                  community support services and resources. Contact the Student Affairs office for your
                  campus for more information.


                        					USF Tampa
                        				 

                        					USF St. Petersburg
                        				 

                        					USF Sarasota-Manatee
                        				 

                        					Victim Advocacy & Violence Prevent
                        				 

                        					SOCAT
                        				 




                  				Hurricanes and Severe Weather
                  			
Although there is the potential for severe weather to impact USF, being prepared can
                  help to minimize the effects.


                        					USF Hurricane Guide
                        				 

                        					Weather.gov
                        				 

                        					National Hurricane Center
                        				 

                        					USF EM Hurricane Page
                        				 

                        					USF EM Severe Weather Page
                        				 




                  				Local Emergency Management Agencies
                  			
Local emergency management agencies have many helpful resources including those for
                  preparedness, evacuation, and available shelters.


                        					State of Florida DEM
                        				 

                        					Hillsborough County EM
                        				 

                        					Pinellas County EM
                        				 

                        					Sarasota County EM
                        				 

                        					Manatee County EM
                        				 




                  				Federal Emergency Management Agency
                  			
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provides valuable tips on preparedness,
                  resources, public assistance, disaster planning, and various training opportunities.
                  Visit ready.gov to learn about risks and find information on building a disaster kit.


                        					FEMA.gov
                        				 

                        					Ready.gov
                        				 

                        					FEMA Training
                        				 


