
Customer Experience Lab - St. Petersburg campus
“What people say about your product and company when you’re not in the room.”



Contact Us
For more information or to schedule services contact Philip J. Trocchia at 727-873-4898.


The St. Petersburg campus customer experience lab at the Muma College of Business
               is a state-of-the-art facility conveniently located on the campus of the St. Petersburg
               campus. This multi-purpose space provides community partners with the resources to:

Conduct live focus groups for consumer research
Obtain insights from faculty and students
Conduct sales training in recording-enabled role play rooms
Perception Analytic Dials providing real-time feedback on video and digital products

Focus groups are moderated by an experienced facilitator and community partners have
               access to highly qualified faculty for data interpretation and action plan development.

The Consumer Insight and Sales Lab created a wonderful experience from start to finish
                  for our promotions focus group. The facility is beautiful and provides a safe and
                  inviting space for the attendees. As we prepared for the 2019 season, the findings
                  from our focus group were the driving force behind our decision making process. I
                  would highly recommend the use of CISL. We look forward to utilizing them again.– Eric Weisberg, Vice President, Marketing & Creative Services, Tampa Bay Rays

Our Facility
Experience the latest equipment housed in a vibrant academic environment in the heart
               of St. Petersburg.

High definition cameras for video capture
Clean audio recorded by highly directional, overhead microphones
Comfortable seating behind one-way glass
Two 90-inch HD monitors


Our Technology
The Perception Analyzer Dials provide real-time feedback on video and digital products.
We are Different
Community partners are able to secure the consumer research needed to spark action.
               The St. Petersburg campus customer experience lab delivers a professional product
               in an academic setting that goes beyond just the focus group.

Thinking you know what the consumer is thinking isn’t the same as really knowing by
                  seeing and hearing what they really want through a focus group. Because of what we
                  learned by listening to a consumer focus group, we revamped our website and started
                  a successful social media campaign.– V. Raymond Ferrara, CEO, ProVise Management Group, LLC
Service Packages
All packages provide community partners with everything they need to make informed
               research-based decisions following the focus group.
Standard Package

Custom Problem Definition Session
Targeted Panel Screening and Recruitment
Experienced Panel Moderator
Interaction with Professor During Focus Group
Final Report
Free Parking

Platinum Package
Standard Package plus:

Follow-up Training Session with Faculty Expert
Discount on a Second Focus Group

