
Internship Information for Employers

View Slides

The USF Muma College of Business internship program connects employers with talented
               students who gain experience through paid internships, while the employers gain access
               to talented and motivated students with new skill sets.   Although internships are
               not deliberately designed to serve as extended interviews, they often allow employers
               to evaluate potential new hires before extending an offer.  Many employers are utilizing
               their internship programs to locate the best and brightest students for their workforce.
Internship Benefits

Help with backlogged tasks or projects that current employees do not have time to
                  tackle
Bring the latest technology skills, as they are digitally savvy
Devise new ideas and innovative solutions for your company
Provide support without a long-term employment commitment
Bring knowledge about your company to campus and increase your brand recognition
Encourage companies like yours to build relationships with highly motivated students
Build a pool of candidates who have direct experience with your company

Choosing an Intern for Your Business
At the Muma College of Business, we have highly motivated and professional students
               in several disciplines who can help meet the needs of your company. See a list of
               Master’s level degrees offered here.


Undergraduate Disciplines

Accounting
Finance
Global Business
Human Resources
Information Systems & Decision Sciences/Business Analytics
Management
Marketing
Personal Financial Planning
Sales
Supply Chain Management



Internship Overview

Occurs in the Fall/Spring Semesters (3 months), or Summer (10 weeks)
At employer’s company’s commercial location
Students apply to employer internship job description
Employer selects which students to interview and hire as an intern(s)
Compensation: $10 - $15 per hour
Interns work 10 - 20 hours per week
Employer must provide a supervisor/mentor for intern



Next Steps for Hiring an Intern

1 - Internship Job Description

An internship job description is required by the Muma College of Business and should
                     serve as the first step to finding an intern and a tool to attract top students. 
                     A good description contains concise and detailed information that helps applicants
                     understand what is expected of them in the internship.Your internship job description should include the following 8 items on your company
                     letterhead:

About your company – describes company philosophy and goals
Title of internship position – includes the word “internship” in the title
Job responsibilities – outlines expected tasks the intern will be doing
Skill sets – preferred/required skills necessary for the position
Hours per week – 10 – 20 hours per week during the Fall/Spring semesters
Compensation - $10 - $20 per hour* (based on qualifications)
Intern supervisor - title and contact information
How students apply – point of contact for resumes and cover letters; phone, email,
                        or link

*Students may be enrolled in an internship course for academic credit or seeking a
                     non-academic internship.  Regardless, the Muma College of Business strongly supports
                     paid internships.  Paid interns at private, for-profit companies had a 72% chance
                     of getting a job offer, compared with just 44% of unpaid interns; and  these paid
                     interns received a median starting salary offer of $53,521 compared to $34,521 for 
                     unpaid interns according to the Wall Street Journal.
In the event of an unpaid internship, such as an internship with a Non-Profit Organization,
                     the employer must contact:
Director, Internal Employer RelationsBellini Center for Talent DevelopmentPavla Ozkul, PhDpozkul@usf.eduOffice: TVB 200



2 - Send Internship Description for Review

Once you have completed your internship job description (see Internship Job Description
                     above) you may submit to the Senior Director of Business Engagement & Internships,
                     Cyndy Sanberg.  Your description will be reviewed in a timely manner and you may be
                     asked to make revisions. 
Please send Internship Job Descriptions to:
Director, Internal Employer RelationsBellini Center for Talent DevelopmentPavla Ozkul, PhDpozkul@usf.eduOffice: TVB 200



3 - Posting Your Internship on Handshake


Upon approval, your internship job description will be distributed to business students
                        by the Collier Student Success Center at the Muma College of Business.
You will also be asked to sign up for a Handshake account to post your internship
                        positon. Follow the instructions below to set up an employer account.Set up an Employer Account on Handshake: usf.joinhandshake.com/login

Click on Sign Up for an Account
Click on Employer
Sign up as an Employer – complete questions
USF Career Services – may ask you questions for their vetting process
Upon approval – post your position






4 - Students Apply and Interview with You


Include a contact person or link on your internship description in order for students
                        to apply directly to you.
You may interview the student at your commercial location.
You choose which student to hire as your intern.




5- Hiring an Intern


As an employer, you will need to complete a Internship Employer Aggreement Form and submit online, which will automatically be sent to the course instructor.
Academic Interns OnlyThese students are planning to enroll in an internship course (4940), which is a three
                        credit hour course available in: Accounting, Finance, Information Systems/Business
                        Analytics, Management, or Marketing. To ensure that students have received the career-related experience necessary for
                           the course the employer must commit to completing a required evaluation of the student
                           intern.Please note: students must secure an internship prior to the process of enrollment
                           in this course.

Your internship position will be subject to approval by the course instructor, the
                              instructor will notify the student when the position is approved.
Upon review of your internship position, you may be contacted regarding any questions.


You will receive an evaluation regarding the intern’s performance prior to the end
                        of the internship.Evaluation Form



Contact Us
Please contact us if you have any questions or would like to discuss your business
               needs and how our interns may assist you.
If you are interested in your company hosting an information session for the students
               or would like more information regarding corporate events, including the Annual Internship
               Showcase, please contact Pavla Ozkul.
Director, Internal Employer RelationsBellini Center for Talent DevelopmentPavla Ozkul, PhDpozkul@usf.eduOffice: TVB 200

