
Business Engagement

For any questions regarding business engagement with the Muma College of Business,
               you may contact each program directly or

Cyndy Sanberg, PhDSenior Director of Business Engagement & Internshipscyndy@usf.edu813-974-9033.


Practice Center

The ISDS Practice Center gives students with new skills and experiences with "real
                     world" projects sponsored by industry partners. Students work in groups of two performing
                     collaborative team-based projects. Every project is supervised by at least one ISDS
                     faculty mentor and at least one representative of the project-sponsoring industry
                     partner. Projects typically last one semester. Based on a project's outcome or the
                     nature of the project, an industry partner may choose to sponsor the next phase or
                     a new project for an additional semester. Some flexibility is built into this program
                     for situations where the project start date cannot coincide with the start of the
                     semester, or where industry partners require students to work on multiple projects.
                     However, the selection of projects should be based on some learning objectives. There
                     is also some flexibility as to the location where students complete project work (at
                     the USF campus and/or sponsoring industry partner facilities).

The center is supported by private gifts as well as support from the industry partners
                        who benefit from the services performed.
Projects are selected two months before the start of the semester in which students
                        work on projects. Applications may come from companies or students themselves.
Participants must be ISDS students and are selected based on GPA, skill sets, and
                        the availability of projects. Honors students are encouraged to apply as project work
                        could be part of an honors thesis, subject to the terms of the non-disclosure agreements.
Practice Center partners have included 3M, Bank of America, Citigroup, Colliers International
                        Fintech, Grow Financial, Jagged Peak, JP Morgan Chase, LeapDoctor, Raymond James Financial,
                        USF Health, and Verizon.

Contact
Anna BahvalaISDS Academic Services Administratorbahvala@usf.edu
Visit Center



Muma Analytics Team

The Muma Analytics Team is supported by the Information Systems and Decision Sciences
                     Department (ISDS) as part of the college's ongoing efforts to promote student success.
                     The mission of this team is to participate in competitive college and industry programming
                     competitions throughout the academic year. The team will also organize analytics and
                     programming competitions in the local area to promote quantitative thinking among
                     local youth. This team will consist of motivated undergraduate students who are eager
                     to solve complex programming and analytical problems in multiple domains. An important
                     goal of the Muma Analytics Team is to encourage women to join the teams.
The team will be coached and mentored by USF ISDS Faculty and others throughout the
                     academic year to ensure the highest level of competitive preparedness for competitions.
Members of the Muma Analytics Team are supported financially through work arrangements
                     with local industry partners. Members will be expected to regularly attend coaching
                     sessions and participate in team practices and scheduled events on a continual basis.
Contact
Clinton DanielISDS, Instructorcedanie2@usf.edu



Citizen Data Science Program

While every company is interested in harnessing the power of analytics and data science
                     to improve its business, employees with a deep understanding of how to interpret those
                     mountains of data are few and far between.
Muma College of Business faculty taught and advised Jabil participants as they worked
                     on their projects, using advanced data management techniques, statistics and statistical
                     programming, predictive modeling, artificial intelligence, big data systems, and business
                     and economic principles.
USF Professor Balaji Padmanabhan, who launched this program along with Adams and faculty
                     members Matthew Mullarkey and Kaushik Dutta, said that these kinds of programs represent
                     the future of collaboration between business and academic researchers.
Contact
Balaji Padmanhaban, PhDISDS, Director – Center for Creativity & Analyticsbp@usf.edu

News - USF Muma College of Business partners with Jabil to offer Citizen Data Science program
                           to employees




Digital Marketing Executive Certificate

The Digital Marketing Certificate at the USF Muma College of Business is a hands-on,
                     four-day immersion program where students learn to apply principles and techniques
                     that drive success in marketing in the digital age. Students get to solve real-world
                     challenges and use practices developed by top companies, while digital marketing experts
                     and professional instructors guide them through every step. Throughout the program,
                     students continuously build their own toolset and develop a unique, personalized digital
                     marketing portfolio. This program helps students

Develop strategies applying to their business.
Eliminate barriers and develop a customer-centric innovation mindset.
Break through silos to bring their organization together on behalf of their customers.
Gain customer insights and turn ideas into action.

Certificate requires the completion of 9 modules:

Strategic digital marketing
Content marketing
Strategic social media
Integrating digital marketing
Marketing automation
Driving innovation via digital metrics
Data-analytics and measurements
Digital transformation
Digital marketing capstone project

Visit site for more information and registration



Compliance, Risk, and Anti-Money Laundering Certification Program

This certificate program is targeted to meet the needs of executives seeking continuing
                     education in the growing field of business risk assessment, compliance, and anti-money
                     laundering. The four courses in the certificate program will provide participants
                     with a strong foundation in risk identification, assessment and management techniques.
                     The program also focuses on knowledge regarding compliance with various rules, laws,
                     and regulations affecting businesses.
The forensic accounting course in the program specifically focuses on fraud prevention,
                     detection, and investigation, including the litigation aspect of fraud. The information
                     technology control and audit course is designed to equip participants with the knowledge
                     and skills necessary to add value to organizations as an auditor of IT-intensive accounting
                     systems. The statistical data mining course will provide skills necessary to apply
                     advanced statistical techniques to "mine" data to glean actionable insights relating
                     to meet anti-money laundering objectives.
Completion of this graduate certificate program may help prepare participants to take
                     the exam for the Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) certification.
Courses

BUL 5842 – Risk management and legal compliance – Offered Summer, Fall and Spring
                        semesters (3 credits)
ACG 6688 Forensic Accounting & Legal Issues – Offered Fall semester (3 credits)
ACG 6457 – Accounting systems audit, control and security – Offered Spring semester
                        (3 credits)
ISM 6137 – Statistical data mining – Offered Summer and Spring semesters (3 credits)

Contact
Uday Murthy, PhDLynn Pipenger School of Accountancy - Chairumurthy@usf.edu


 

