
Overview

The University of South Florida’s academic programs are designed to cultivate student
               success for all types of learners. From traditional learners, special needs learners
               and adults interested in advancing their careers to veterans and distance learners,
               USF provides a comprehensive, engaging and dynamic academic environment tailored to
               meet the needs of individual students.
At USF, every student is empowered to forge their path to success. Our undergraduate,
               graduate and professional programs are globally competitive and are committed to engaging
               students through positive teaching and learning environments. Within the classroom
               and beyond, students maximize their potential through interdisciplinary inquiry, intellectual
               development and skill acquisition.

“At USF a fundamental principle of our student success initiative is the belief that
                  all students, regardless of race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status, can and will
                  succeed if given the opportunity to do so,” - Vice President for Student Success and
                  Student Affairs Paul Dosal.

Students choose from 180 undergraduate majors and degree programs at the graduate,
               specialist and doctoral levels, including the doctor of medicine. The university has
               14 colleges falling under the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for
               Academic Affairs. From medicine and the arts to marine science and business, each
               offers an extensive range of degree and specialty programs, many allowing students
               to focus on a particular discipline while exploring other areas of interest across
               the university. Undergraduates are strongly encouraged to take advantage of a wide
               range of research opportunities and study abroad programs.
Our institutional commitment to student success enriches the college experience for
               each student. From extended library hours and expanded study spaces to Living and
               Learning Communities and our SMART Lab innovative learning environment, USF has the
               resources to stimulate student achievement. 
The Judy Genshaft Honors College at USF offers high-achieving, academically motivated
               students extraordinary opportunities to develop their thinking, reasoning and analytic
               skills, regardless of major. The program encourages interaction among students and
               top faculty through small classes and unique on-campus opportunities.
Innovative Education extends the reach of USF's academic programs through continuing
               education programs, graduate certificates, distance and online learning, workforce
               development, noncredit education, pre-college programs and the Osher Lifelong Learning
               Institute.
With these academic resources, our students turn knowledge and experience into real-world
               preparedness. USF’s graduation and retention rates have skyrocketed, and our post-graduation
               career placement levels are unmatched by other Florida universities, making USF an
               internationally renowned institution for overall student success.

