
Financial Aid / Scholarships




Financial Aid - St. Petersburg campus



With more than 175 different scholarships available exclusively for business majors,
               the USF Muma College of Business is proud to award nearly $600,000 in scholarships
               each year. Some scholarships are need-based, some are merit-based; others are awarded
               to students studying for a particular degree or are based on student talent.
The Muma College of Business will accept applications for scholarships through the
               university's AwardSpring System. To learn more about the USF scholarships and fellowships for the 2023-2024 academic
               year, please visit the site after it reopens in December 2022. Only one application
               is needed to be considered for 175+ scholarships. Six scholarship options will be
               listed for the Muma College of Business, three for general scholarships, one for study
               abroad scholarships and two for incoming freshman scholarships.  
Most scholarships are designated for full-time (12 credit hours or more per term)
               business students at USF who meet all college admission requirements. Most yearly
               scholarships are in the $500 to $2,000 range.
Many scholarships are need-based and require a Free Application for Federal Student
               Aid (FASFA).  Students will not be considered for those specific scholarships without
               completing the FASFA requirement.  For further information, please go to the USF Financial Aid website for FASFA assistance.
Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy
Scholarships/excellence grants will be announced in upper-level accounting classes
               and applications may be obtained in March from the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy,
               BSN 3305. Only accounting majors who have successfully completed ACG 3103 are eligible.
Study Abroad
Students interested in receiving Study Abroad scholarships should apply under the
               normal USF Scholarship option and make sure that they click yes to the question about
               studying abroad this summer. This will automatically bring up the scholarships that
               students will be eligible for once the entire form is completed. Please contact Patricia Kerney if you have any other questions.

For more information on program specific scholarships please visit Education Abroad Scholarships
Students will be awarded only one scholarship from either the Lynn Pippenger School
                     of Accountancy, the Economics Department, or the Muma College of Business.

Business Scholarship Requirements

Have at least a 3.4 USF GPA and a 3.4 Overall GPA. Incoming transfer students and first-term freshmen must have at least a 3.4 institutional
                  GPA and 3.4 overall GPA at previous schools.
Scholarship recipients WILL attend USF full-time (12 credit hours) during Fall 2023 and Spring 2024. Those who graduate earlier than expected or who
                  are not full-time students due to work or other factors, will not be eligible for
                  the full scholarship amounts.  (Part-time students may be considered for a scholarship,
                  but full-time students will be given first priority.)
Be fully admitted to the Muma College of Business on the Tampa campus by the end of the Spring 2023 term.  
Have earned at least 12 hours at USF by the end of the Spring 2023 term (continuing students only) AND must have completed ACG 2071 (Principles of Managerial
                  Accounting) by the end of the Spring term. First year Bulls Business Network students
                  are exempt from this requirement.
Award recipients must attend the Scholarship Award Luncheon and write the required
                     donor thank you letter or they may be required to repay and/or forfeit their award.
Scholarship award recipients will be notified no later than the third week of June 2023, if they received an award.

Application Deadlines

New Freshman - February 1
New Transfer Students- February 24
Summer 2023 Study Abroad - May 19
Continuing Students and Renewals - May 19

For assistance with general financial aid or other university scholarships, contact
               the University Scholarships & Financial Aid Services office or call 813-974-4700.  
USF Financial Aid & Scholarships
Many other USF scholarships are available outside of the college. There are several
               step-by-step guides for obtaining financial aid, a link to financial aid forms, a
               quick guide to some of the most popular assistance programs and an online search tool
               for all graduate and undergraduate scholarships. The search lists scholarships by
               major, award amounts, scholarship criteria, and deadlines for applications.
Use the USF Scholarship Search

