
Essential Personnel Program
Per USF Policy 6-037, in order to provide for the safety and well-being of the campus community and to
               continue critical operations, certain designated employees will need to report to
               work during an emergency event. Departments are responsible for designating essential
               personnel and ensuring that they complete the appropriate training.

TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                  
Essential Personnel Acknowledgment Form
Employees whose position is identified as Essential Personnel must complete the Essential Personnel Acknowledgement form. Appointment as Essential Personnel must be approved through the appropriate channels
               for each department.
The form must be signed by the employee, the employee’s supervisor, and the department
               head. The form may be signed via DocuSign, but must be downloaded and emailed as a
               PDF attachment to usf-emergencymgmt@usf.edu.  The form must be submitted PRIOR TO completing the mandatory Essential Personnel
               training.
For any employee related questions/concerns, please contact the Human Resources Employee
               Relations team at employee-relations@usf.edu.

Faculty Information

What is the role of Academic Affairs in emergencies?



The role of essential personnel within Academic Affairs is to come to USF after an
                        emergency event such as a major hurricane and help the USF Emergency Operations Center
                        team assess damage in laboratory buildings. They would be contacted by the Provost's
                        Office or by the USF Emergency Operations Center team when needed to help with the
                        assessment.




Are faculty considered essential personnel?



Appointment as essential personnel in Academic Affairs at USF requires the approval
                        of Vice Provost Jim Garey and is typically limited to one person per science/engineering
                        department with a presence in each building. A Dean, Director, or Chair can work with Vice
                        Provost Garey to determine who should be essential personnel, but may not designate
                        people as essential personnel without approval. 




Can I continue lab operations during an emergency closing?



Personnel are not authorized to run experiments, run laboratories, nor “ride out the
                        storm” on campus during emergency closures of USF. Designation as essential personnel
                        is not a license to remain at USF to continue experiments, ride out a storm or related
                        purposes. It is solely to help the USF Emergency Operations Center team assess damage
                        in laboratory buildings and report back to their departments/colleges. The reopening
                        of laboratories following an emergency event is authorized by the USF President in
                        collaboration with the USF Emergency Operations Center team.



Appointment as essential personnel in Academic Affairs at USF requires prior approval
                  from Interim Vice Provost for Labor Relations and Academic Space Planning, Dr. Steven
                  Tauber. 

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

Resources

ICS 214 Activity Log
Recall Roster Template
Job Action Sheet Template 

 
