
Overview

The University of South Florida offers a generous variety of pre- and post-tax insurance
               options to keep you and your family healthy. To learn more about the benefits options,
               click the appropriate link below that corresponds to your job type.

Faculty, Admin and Staff

Faculty, Administration and Staff employees are eligible for a generous variety of
                     pre- and post-tax insurance choices through the State of Florida and private insurance
                     providers. 
Pre-Tax benefits are offered through the State of Florida and its benefits plan administrator,
                     People First. These Pre-tax benefits include Health insurance, State life insurance (Basic, Optional, Spouse and Dependent ), Dental, Vision, coverage for Cancer and Intensive Care, Supplemental Hospital insurance, Accident
                        / Disability insurance and Flexible Spending Accounts. Click the links on the left menu for additional information on these plans.
Post-tax benefits are offered through the Gabor Agency and the Mynatt Insurance Agency.
                     These Post-tax benefits include Personal Accident insurance, Life insurance, Disability insurance, and Long term care.
Clinical physicians in the College of Medicine may be eligible for additional benefits
                     through the USF Physicians Group.



Temporary

Employees must work an average of 30 hours per week at the point of hire or over a
                     defined measurement period to meet eligibility criteria for state health and some
                     supplemental plans unless a status change results in an increase to the expected hours;
                     coverage will not be offered for Optional Life or Medical Reimbursement Accounts. 
For more information review the OPS Eligibility information at People First.
Pre-Tax benefits are offered through the State of Florida and its benefits plan administrator,
                     People First.  These Pre-tax benefits include Health insurance, State life insurance (Basic, Spouse and Dependent), Dental, Vision, coverage for Cancer and Intensive Care, Supplemental Hospital insurance, Accident
                        / Disability insurance and Flexible Spending Accounts.  Click the links on the left menu for additional information on these plans.
Post-tax benefits are offered through the Gabor Agency and the Mynatt Insurance Agency. 
                     These Post-tax benefits include Personal Accident insurance and Whole Life insurance.  Click Supplemental Insurance in the left menu for complete details. 



Postdoctoral Scholar

USF Postdoctoral Scholars are eligible for benefits that include medical, dental,
                     life and disability insurance, retirement plans and paid time off. To participate,
                     you must enroll for medical, dental, life and disability insurance within 60 days
                     of beginning employment at USF or during the annual open enrollment period. Administration
                     of the health plan is handled by Academic HealthPlans (AHP).
Postdoctoral Scholars must meet all eligibility guidelines to participate.  Click
                     Postdoctoral Scholars in the left menu for more information. 



Graduate Assistant

Eligible Graduate Assistants/Associates (GAs) at USF may participate in the USF Student
                     Health Insurance Plan and, as a GA, may be eligible to have your insurance premium
                     paid by the university. The Student Health Insurance Plan is administered by Academic
                     HealthPlans (AHP) in conjunction with USF Student Health and Wellness, and the insurance
                     policy is provided by Aetna. 
GAs must meet all eligibility guidelines to participate.  Click Graduate Assistants in the left menu for more information on Graduate Insurance.


Additional Information
If covered by the State of Florida benefits, many of your benefits actions, such as
               enrollment, qualifying status changes (QSC), verification of dependent eligibility and COBRA benefits, can be completed by logging
               on to the People First web site or by calling People First at 866-663-4735 (TTY users call 866-221-0268).
See the Benefits Enrollment Change Information and FAQs - Insurance & PF for more information.
On January 1, 2014, key parts of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) went into effect, and
               federal law requires employers to provide notices to all active employees regarding
               health insurance marketplace coverage options. The coverage offered through the Marketplace
               may not impact the benefits you may be eligible for through the University of South
               Florida.  However, the notice should be carefully read, as it provides some basic
               information about the Marketplace and employment-based health coverage offered by
               USF. 
See the Marketplace Notice for complete details.
Re-Employment or State Agency Transfers
An employee who is rehired or transfers to USF from another state agency in the same
               calendar year and has a break in service of less than one full calendar month*, may
               not make new benefit elections, and may not enroll in benefits (if not already enrolled).
               All elections in place at the time of termination will continue upon rehire, and no
               new elections may be made. An employee who is rehired in the same calendar year with
               a break in service of more than one full calendar month* may make new benefit elections.
               Restrictions on Flexible Spending Accounts may apply.
*Break in Service for OPS/Temp employees at academic institutions is 26 weeks.

