
Overview

New in 2023 - Click here to learn about legislative changes to the FRS!
The University of South Florida provides employees the opportunity to participate
               in different retirement and savings programs. This section offers in-depth resources
               to help you learn about the retirement programs available or assist in the retirement
               process. For information about the plans, click the appropriate link that corresponds
               to your job type.

Retirement Options for Faculty and Administration

All Faculty and Administration employees are required to participate in one of three
                     retirement plans sponsored by the State of Florida. Voluntary retirement savings programs
                     include 403(b) plans and 457 deferred compensation plans. 
State Retirement Plans
Faculty and Administration employees may participate in one of the three Florida Retirement
                     System (FRS) retirement plans:  the FRS Pension Plan, FRS Investment Plan or State
                     University System Optional Retirement Program (ORP/SUSORP).  You can find information
                     on key differences between the plans on the MyFRS website. You only have a short time to decide. View more information about deadlines. 
Note:  College of Medicine faculty must participate in SUSORP.

Florida Retirement System Pension Plan (FRS) 
DROP - Deferred Retirement Option Program 
Phased Retirement Program 
FRS Investment Plan 
Optional Retirement Program (ORP/SUSORP) 

Voluntary Plans
Voluntary 403(b) Savings plans and 457 Deferred Compensation plans offer employees
                     the opportunity to save money for retirement while reducing their current income tax
                     liability.

Voluntary 403(b) Savings Plan 
457 Deferred Compensation Plan 




Retirement Options for Staff

All Staff employees are required to participate in one of two retirement plans sponsored
                     by the State of Florida. Voluntary retirement savings programs include 403(b) and
                     457 deferred compensation plans.
State Retirement Plans
Staff employees participate in one of two Florida Retirement System (FRS) retirement
                     plans:  the FRS Pension Plan or the FRS Investment Plan. New employees will automatically
                     default into the FRS Investment Plan unless they enroll in the FRS Pension Plan within
                     their required enrollment period. Special Risk Class members will automatically default
                     into the FRS Pension Plan unless they enroll in the FRS Investment Plan within their
                     required enrollment period.
You only have a short time to decide. Your FRS plan choice must be made by 4:00 p.m.
                     ET on the last business day of the 8th month following your month of hire.
Information about the FRS Pension Plan and FRS Investment Plan (including tools and
                     videos to help you make your plan choice) can be found at the ChooseMyFRSPlan website. 
Ready to choose your FRS plan?  Visit the ChooseMyFRSPlan website and click on the ENROLL NOW button at the top of the page.
Additional information:

Florida Retirement System Pension Plan 
DROP - Deferred Retirement Option Program 
Florida Retirement System Investment Plan 

Voluntary Plans
Voluntary 403(b) Savings plans and 457 Deferred Compensation plans offer employees
                     the opportunity to save money for retirement while reducing their current income tax
                     liability.

Voluntary 403(b) Savings Plan 
457 Deferred Compensation Plan 




Retirement Options for Temporary Employees

The University of South Florida offers both a qualified retirement plan for part-time,
                     seasonal and Temporary employees not covered by the Florida Retirement System, as
                     well as the opportunity to participate in a Voluntary Plan; Voluntary 403(b) Savings
                     Plan and/or 457 Deferred Compensation Plan. Temporary employees are automatically
                     enrolled in the Temporary Employee Retirement Plan (TERP) upon employment. For information
                     about the plans, click the appropriate links below.
USF Retirement Plan

TERP – Temporary Employee Retirement Plan 

Voluntary Plans

Voluntary 403(b) Savings Plan 
457 Deferred Compensation Plan 




FRS Financial Planning Online Workshops
FRS Financial Planning Online Workshops -- Various webinars on enrolling into retirement plans, understanding retirement plans,
               and planning for retirement 
Previously recorded workshops available -- click on the link below, then the Launch
               Presentation button to start the video.





Taking Control of Your Finances
Investment Planning
Education Planning: Funding the Future
Understanding the FRS Investment Plan





Retirement Readiness and Resources
We understand that the transition into retirement is a significant event which, at
               times, can be emotional and challenging. To help you on this important and exciting
               transition into your new journey, we have developed a Your Successful Retirement guide.
CAPTRUST FINANCIAL FREE ADVISING
The University of South Florida is now offering free financial advice through CAPTRUST.
               This is available to all employees.
CAPTRUST is an independent investment advisory firm that provides investment advice
               to University of South Florida’s retirement plan committee and plan participants.
               Employees who need help navigating their retirement benefits and other financial priorities
               (e.g. budgeting, debt, credit, college savings) can rely on CAPTRUST’s participant
               advice program. CAPTRUST has been helping individual participants like you for over
               25 years, by providing personalized advice. To learn more about the firm, register
               for the webinar at the link listed below or visit CAPTRUST ADVICE.  
Register for the University of South Florida 403(b) Plan Webinar 

Wednesday, February 8, 2023 

Schedule an appointment 

Wednesday, February 15, 2023 
Thursday, March 30, 2023 
Request an individual appointment at your convenience here.

 
