
Alumni Groups

Alumni groups provide programs that help build careers, organize fun social events
               that connect alumni to one another, and help support and strengthen the university's
               connection to the business community. Members of smaller groups specifically for business
               majors provide an avenue for alumni to meet and interact with like-minded professionals.
               There are groups exclusively for Executive MBA graduates, for younger alumni, or for
               those from USF's entrepreneurship programs.

USF Alumni AssociationThe USF Alumni Association boasts members from every college and every campus, providing
                     programs and services to alumni members while gaining funding and developing alumni
                     advocates for the University. In the pages of the newsletters and the Alumni Voice will find interesting and entertaining articles and features to help you stay abreast
                     of changes on campus and in the lives of your friends and classmates. It also will
                     keep you up to date on Homecoming and other alumni events and activities in the Tampa
                     Bay area and around the world.
Bulls New Frontier in EntrepreneurshipThis group of alumni, who frequently partner with the USF Entrepreneur Alumni Society
                     strives to keep entrepreneurial alumni connected, keep them learning, and keep them
                     exploring "new frontier of doing business with the USF entrepreneurial spirit."
USF Entrepreneur Alumni SocietyThe USF Entrepreneurship Alumni Society fosters relationships between graduates of
                     the Center for Entrepreneurship, aiming to inspire loyalty and pride among current
                     and future alumni and to advocate for excellence in teaching, research and public
                     service.
Executive MBA AlumniGraduates of the Executive MBA program, many of whom not only learned together in
                     the classroom but also learned together on the EMBA overseas study experiences, gather
                     annually, usually around homecoming. In addition, members often join current students
                     to discover key business and life lessons from respected business leaders who take
                     part in the Distinguished Speaker Series that is exclusively for the Executive MBA
                     program.
USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Accounting CircleThe Accounting Circle represents a partnership between faculty, students, alumni,
                     and friends of the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, developing and hosting
                     programs that allow current students to interact with industry professionals, raising
                     funds to provide financial assistance to students, and assist with a variety of Lynn
                     Pippenger School of Accountancy activities.


