
AlertUSF


The University of South Florida maintains a comprehensive Emergency Notification System
               (ENS), called AlertUSF, for the purpose of issuing immediate notification to keep
               the USF community informed and safe during an emergency situation. There are many
               components of the system that provide redundant layers of notification to ensure the
               widest possible distribution of the message, and these system components are regularly
               tested to ensure proper functionality.
Upon the report of a dangerous or emergency situation, campus officials will confirm
               the existence of the threat. These situations may include, but are not limited to:
               law enforcement issues; hazardous material release; and hazardous weather affecting
               a USF campus. As soon as USF officials have confirmed that a significant emergency
               or dangerous situation exists, USF officials will take into account the safety of
               the campus community; determine what information to release about the situation; and
               begin the notification process. The University may not immediately issue a notification
               for a confirmed emergency or dangerous situation if doing so would compromise efforts
               to assist a victim; contain the emergency; respond to the emergency; or otherwise
               mitigate the emergency.

REGISTER FOR ALERTUSF TEXT
AlertUSF text messages are part of the USF Emergency Notification System that allows
               you to receive emergency updates. All official USF emergency notifications will be
               sent out through AlertUSF. Faculty, staff, and students are urged to register to receive
               these text messages.
To register or update your contact information follow these instructions:

Login to NetID Account Services web site using your NetID.
Click Manage Emergency Alert Settings.
Follow instructions to opt in, provide mobile phone number and select campus locations
                  for alerts.
Click Submit.

If you have questions, please review our Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) and Statement of Support.

Components of AlertUSF may vary by campus and include:

Homepage - Emergency messages will be broadcast to the USF institution’s homepage at the affected
                  campus location(s). The website is the best place to receive the most thorough, accurate
                  and up-to-date information during an emergency.
Text Message - Faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to sign-up to receive text alerts.
                  Sign up using instructions above. 
Outdoor Notifications - Maintained independently at each campus, outdoor notifications provide strobe,
                  tone, and loud voice messages audible by outdoor populations through speaker arrays.
Indoor Notifications - Indoor notification is currently available only within select buildings on the
                  Tampa and Sarasota-Manatee campuses. Contact your facilities manager for more information.
Desktop Alerts - Desktop Alerts will appear on desktop computers that are maintained by USF IT and
                  active when the messages are issued at each campus. If you encounter issues or do
                  not receive Desktop Alerts on your USF desktop computer, contact IT at help@usf.edu.
Digital Displays - The Tampa Campus has integrated digital display boards across campus to broadcast
                  emergency language to the displays.
Alert Beacons - Designated rooms on the Tampa campus have installed Alert Beacons which provide
                  tone, strobe, and text.
AlertUSF Website (Tampa Campus Alerts Only) - www.usf.edu/alertusf. The Alert Website serves as a central repository for emergency related-information
                  that is released through AlertUSF. The AlertUSF Website will allow the public and
                  individuals who do not receive AlertUSF Text access to information during and after
                  an event. 

Additional methods that the University may use to communicate include:

E-mail - E-mail may be used for on-going messaging but will not communicate emergency notifications.
Social Media - Campus Twitter pages may be used to provide information about the emergency.
Campus Safety Emergency Hotline - During extended events, recorded information and updates may be available by calling
                  the appropriate Campus Safety Emergency Hotline.

Emergency Hotline Numbers

USF Tampa: 1-800-992-4231
USF St. Petersburg: (727) 873-4636
USF Sarasota-Manatee: (941) 359-4444

The University uses this spectrum of notification methods to reach large numbers of
               constituents as quickly and efficiently as possible. If an emergency affects only
               a segment of the campus community, a more limited warning may be issued. Continuing
               assessments of the situation and additional warnings will occur as appropriate.
More information on the Emergency Notification System can be found in the Annual Safety Report and the Emergency Management Policy 6-010.
