
Overview
CENTER FOR ANALYTICS & CREATIVITY
Located on the Tampa campusThe center's mission is to facilitate the discovery and dissemination of insights
               through the power of analytical and creative thinking. This involves fostering a climate
               of innovation and analytics throughout the school's administration, classrooms, and
               research.
BELLINI CENTER FOR TALENT DEVELOPMENT
The Bellini Center for Talent Development at the Muma College of Business is a career-development
               program for students and the Tampa Bay business community creating a real world corporate
               environment in a classroom level setting.
COLLIER STUDENT SUCCESS CENTER
Working in tandem with USF's Career Services, the Collier Student Success Center assists
               business students with career planning, hosts corporate networking events, and coordinates
               workshops to help students with professional development. Businesses, large and small,
               partner with the center to host information sessions, offer internship opportunities,
               and recruit future employees.
Customer Experience Labs
Located on the Tampa and St. Petersburg campusesThe Customer Experience Labs at the Muma College of Business are  state-of-the-art
               facilities located on the Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses. The labs support student
               skills development and research across multiple marketing domains leveraging a diverse
               set of methodologies and neuromarketing tools including eye tracking, facial expression
               analysis, galvanic skin response, and EEG.
NAULT CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Located on the Tampa campusUSF's Nault Center for Entrepreneurship provides academic and practical learning programs
               for graduate students. The center is part of three colleges at USF: the Muma College
               of Business, the College of Engineering, and the Morsani College of Health.
INSTITUTE FOR DATA ANALYTICS AND VISUALIZATION
Located on the St. Petersburg campusThe mission for the Institute for Data Analytics and Visualization in the Muma College
               of Business serves the community by offering consulting services in the areas of data
               analytics and data visualization.
David Kotok and Cumberland Advisors Bloomberg Lab
Located on the Sarasota-Manatee campusThe David Kotok and Cumberland Advisors Bloomberg Lab hosts 10 Bloomberg Terminals
               that allow students access to Bloomberg Professional Services, a powerful resource
               providing real-time data from markets around the world, in addition to news, research,
               and powerful analytics used by top decision-makers in finance, business, and government.
FINTECH CENTER AT THE KATE TIEDEMANN SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Located on the St. Petersburg campusThe Fintech Center at the Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance in the Muma
               College of Business endeavors to be a leading university-based fintech center and
               entrepreneurial ecosystem, with a strategic focus on helping students, faculty, the
               business community, and fintech entrepreneurs lead with success and positive impact
               in the rapidly emerging and increasingly prominent fintech driven market sectors.
School of information syStems and management PRACTICE CENTER
Located on the Tampa campusThe School of Information Systems and Management Practice Center gives students with
               new skills and experiences in doing “real world” projects sponsored by industry partners.
               Students work in groups of two performing collaborative team-based projects. Every
               project is supervised by at least one faculty mentor and at least one representative
               of the project-sponsoring industry partner. Typically, projects are scoped to last
               a semester.
M3 CENTER FOR HOSPITALITY TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
Located on the Sarasota-Manatee campusThe M3 Center for Hospitality Technology and Innovation was established at what was
               then known as the University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee in 2013. The M3 Center
               was made possible by a transformational gift from Tampa businessman John McKibbon. 
               Center faculty conduct rigorous academic research of significance to the global hospitality
               industry, while serving as a critical reporting outlet and resource for educational
               tools and innovation, conferences, training and forums for improving the connections
               between academia, industry, and the society at large.
CENTER FOR MARKETING & SALES INNOVATION
Located on the Tampa campusThe Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation seeks to be an engine for economic growth
               in the region by connecting students interested in a sales or marketing careers with
               businesses, supports sales skills development for students and businesses through
               competitions, workshops, and training, and conducts research in sales, marketing,
               and neuro-marketing. The center is home to the Customer Experience Labs located on
               the Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses.
Marketing and Innovation Practice Center
The Marketing and Innovation Practice Center project is available across all three
               campuses and supervised by faculty members from all three campuses. The center gives
               students with new skills and experiences with "real world" projects sponsored by industry
               partners. Students work in groups of two performing collaborative team-based projects.
               Every project is supervised by at least one faculty mentor and at least one representative
               of the project-sponsoring industry partner. Projects typically last one semester.
MERRILL LYNCH WEALTH MANAGEMENT CENTER
Located on the St. Petersburg campusThe Merrill Lynch Wealth Management Center is within the Muma College of Business.  The
               venue allows students to analyze stocks, assess investment opportunities and apply
               skills learned in class to manage wealth. It hosts a number of financial literacy
               initiatives benefitting current students, future students and the greater community.
MONICA WOODEN CENTER FOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT & SUSTAINABILITY
Located on the Tampa campusSupply chain management, reverse logistics, and sustainability greatly interest both
               domestic and international businesses because these issues impact their profitability
               — especially in today's competitive marketplace. The Monica Wooden Center for Supply
               Chain Management & Sustainability is the first center of its kind in Florida. It spearheads
               efforts related to the supply chain major, minor, graduate program and a number of
               community/industry initiatives.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE
In 2021, the USF Muma College of Business and Tampa General Hospital have launched
               a groundbreaking initiative to provide critical people skills to hospital staff ranging
               from top-shelf surgeons to valets.  While medical programs excel at imparting lifesaving
               knowledge to medical personnel, critical people skills tend to get much less attention
               in focused medical programs. Leveraging expertise from USF, the People Development
               Institute offers courses that equip TGH employees, hospital partners, vendors and
               associates with the tools they need to create better relations with patients, customers
               and the medical community. The professional development programs that are part of
               this collaborative initiative fill that very gap.  The People Development Institute
               awards non-credit Credly badges, which recognize digital learning that focuses on
               hard and soft skills necessary for an organization to thrive. Faculty from the Muma
               College of Business play a leading role in the course design, creation and delivery.
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Located on the Tampa campusAs Florida's principal provider of small business assistance, the Small Business Development
               Center at the University of South Florida provides free, one-on-one consulting and
               low-cost seminars to start-up and existing businesses. It assists with a variety aspects
               of small business development and issues that are important to today's small business
               owners.
WOMEN AND LEADERSHIP INITIATIVE
Located on the St. Petersburg campusThe Women and Leadership Initiative at the Muma College of Business is composed of
               three main arms which support the education, empowerment and professional success
               of women. The inclusive nature of programming can not be understated, we strongly
               believe that open dialogue, education, and the sharing of resources is necessary to
               progress towards an equitable future. Individuals of all genders are encouraged to
               participate in academic coursework, events, and mentorship programming.
