
Post-Crisis Leadership Certificate


Shareable Certificate + LinkedIn Badge

100% Online

Flexible Deadlines, Levels, Hours and Language



View Program Brochure
Session powered by


Visionary leaders know that growing the business, gaining a competitive advantage
               and positioning the company for future success requires immediate action.
This certificate will help people at all levels learn how to do that. Taught by experts
               from the USF Muma College of Business, this seven-module program, is targeted toward
               business professionals, whether currently employed or furloughed due to the crisis.
Program Details

Format: Online
Dates: Feb. 22 - Apr. 12, 2021
Time: Sessions will be recorded so users may view any time
Modules: 7
Fee: $250.00
Location: Online

Registration is open until February 22, 2021
Careers-Driven Benefits




Navigate the transition from the crisis to the new normal
Establish effective communication and coordination across the supply chain


Recruit, organize, evaluate, and lead a resilient team
Seize opportunities focused on key competitive advantages


Leverage key data to model, analyze, and visualize multiple possible scenarios
Capitalize on core competencies to serve the customer


Assess and mitigate risk and security during business continuity and recovery
Apply critical financial tools and techniques to restructure, recapitalize, and reignite
                        growth



With This Certificate You Will Learn



Module 1
Strategies and tools, you can use now to break free of historical thinking to open
                  the future for innovation and growth.


Module 2
How to assess changing customer preferences and how to reach customers with digital
                  marketing.


Module 3
How supply chains work and upcoming changes that will become inputs for future decision
                  making.


Module 4
How to remove emotion from decisions by making data driven fact-based decisions.




Module 5
Assess the risk and opportunity for your company and your customers by applying finance
                  and accounting.


Module 6
What a Chief Risk Officer does and how risk management increases a company's value.


Module 7
When to shift your messaging, how to identify customers who will and can buy from
                  you and develop a practical understanding of tools you can use to plan for the next
                  disruption.

News


'Post-Crisis Leadership' Certificate Holders Poised to Bring Back the EconomyJuly 6, 2020 USF’s Muma College of Business, more than 6,000 participants are poised to lead their
                  corporations, small businesses, non-profits and entrepreneurships into a market emerging
                  from the COVID-19 crisis.
'Post-Crisis Leadership' Certificate Program Draws 8,000 Participants from 80 CountriesJune 5, 2020 As a major section of the workforce is working remotely – or laid off – because of
                  the COVID-19 crisis, thousands took the opportunity to better themselves through an
                  online certificate program offered by the Muma College of Business.
Muma College of Business to Offer Free Certificate Program in 'Post-Crisis Leadership'May 6, 2020 The world of business is largely locked down right now to stem the spread of COVID-19.
                  Small businesses along with larger corporations are eager to jump back into the game
                  and get revenues moving again.


