
Campus Resources


                  				Bookstore
                  			
Your one-stop shop for everything USF and everything Bulls. With a presence on all
                  three campuses, USF's official campus bookstore, managed by Follett, offers books,
                  textbooks, apparel, supplies, gifts, technology, a cafe and more. Take a look.


                        				Tampa Campus Bookstore
                        			 

                        				St. Petersburg Campus Bookstore
                        			 

                        				Sarasota-Manatee Campus Bookstore
                        			 




                  				Student ID Card
                  			
The USFCard is the official identification card for the University of South Florida
                  and provides access to rooms, residence halls, meal plans and library resources; free
                  rides on the USF Bull Runner and more. Learn about the USFCard.


                        					USFCard
                        				 




                  				Parking and Transportation Services
                  			
Visiting one of our three campuses? Get directions, maps, parking permits, bus schedules
                  and more on the the parking services website for each campus.


                        					Tampa Campus Parking & Transportation
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Parking & Transportation
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Parking Services
                        				 




                  				USF Post Office and Mailroom Services
                  			
The USF Post Office provides mail service to USF students, faculty and staff on the
                  Tampa campus. Learn about the variety of mail services and supplies available, including
                  mailbox rentals and money orders. Mailroom services are available at the St. Petersburg
                  and Sarasota-Manatee campuses.


                        					USF Post Office
                        				 

                        					Mailroom at St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Mailroom at Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 




                  				USF Print Center
                  			
University of South Florida and ProCopy have partnered to offer students, faculty
                  and staff a full range of business and printing services to assist with their everyday
                  needs. The USF Print Center produces crisp, clean copies/prints, professional binding
                  and finishing. They also provide high quality prints for posters, signs, banners,
                  postcards, booklets, brochures, photos, and more!


                        					USF Print Center
                        				 




                  				Veterans Services
                  			
Ranked fourth among the nation's most veteran-friendly schools, USF offers a number
                  of unique programs and resources for student veterans, including a Veterans Achievement
                  Center and on-site Department of Veteran's Services representative. Learn about our
                  university-wide commitment to veteran success.


                        					Tampa Campus Veterans Services
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Military & Veterans Success
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Veterans Success
                        				 




                  				Accessibility Resources
                  			
Students Accessibility Services works to ensure that students with disabilities participate
                  in all aspects of university life. The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
                  (DEI) aims to ensure that discrimination is prohibited in employment and education.
                  Learn about our programs and resources to accommodate and support our students.


                        					Student Accessibility Services
                        				 

                        					Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Accessibility Services
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Accessibility Services
                        				 




                  				Childcare on Tampa Campus
                  			
USF offers on-campus childcare options for students, faculty and staff in Tampa at
                  the USF Preschool for Creative Learning, a partner with the USF College of Education.


                        					USF Preschool for Creative Learning
                        				 


