
Employee Assistance Program

Magellan News and Monthly Webinars
Your resource for monthly webinars and special topics!  Click here

New! Animated videos for Managers and Employees 
Manager – Meet Madeline (2:28 minutes)

YouTube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m8FTpA7oRuU
Vimeo  https://vimeo.com/857898202 
MP4 – Go to Vimeo link and choose download

Employee – Meet Liam (1:54 minutes)

YouTube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k8DmzXgtWSY
Vimeo  https://vimeo.com/857895577 
MP4 – Go to Vimeo link and choose download


It's your life. We can help you live it -- BETTER!

The University of South Florida's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a service program
               designed to assist employees with personal, family, or workplace concerns/issues.
               A robust EAP program is an important component of any workplace community, and services
               are provided by Magellan Health Services, a national leader in behavioral health care.
It's all about balance

We know that living a productive and fulfilling life requires a healthy mind and a
               healthy body. Unfortunately, managing the daily stresses of work, home and family
               can have a negative effect on our overall health and well-being. For many of us, life
               is quite simply "out of balance"; leaving us feeling overwhelmed and stressed-out. Your
               EAP program can help.
Start your year strong
As you start the new year and plan out the goals you would like to achieve, remember
               that Work-Life is available 24/7 to provide support and tools to help make your resolutions
               a reality.
Access Work-Life for information on:

Local nutrition, wellness and fitness resources
Financial resources and professionals
Skill and career advancement tools
Information on travel planning
Home improvement professionals

Getting help online is easy! From webinars, live talks and audio to articles and downloadable
               guides, Work-Life provides insights and information to help you start your year strong.
A wealth of practical, solution-focused resources
Your program has the resources and the experience to help you bring things back into
               balance. From online resources to confidential telephonic consultations to referrals
               and licensed behavioral health professionals, we're here to help you make the changes
               necessary to reduce stress, strengthen relationships, increase productivity and improve
               the overall quality of your life.
How to Access EAP Services

Calling 1-800-327-8705 day or night to speak with a trained, caring professional
Accessing the Magellan Healthcare for online services

Magellan services are confidential, free and available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.+
Here are just a few of the challenges where your program can help:



Managing stress
Wellness topics
Handling relationship issues
Balancing work and life
Quitting tobacco, alcohol, or drug use
Caring for children or aging parents




Exploring career development options
Dealing with conflict or violence
Working through grief and loss
Controlling depression and anxiety
Legal and financial services - video
Dealing with life event



If you have questions contact us...

Human Resources - Tampa Campus

Human Resources - St. Petersburg Campus 
Human Resources - Sarasota-Manatee Campus

