
Information Systems and Management Practice Center

Goals

To provide experiential learning for our students within the business analytics and
                  information systems program
To engage faculty members in meaningful ways with different businesses and organizations
                  within the Greater Tampa Bay and Sarasota-Manatee county region.
To provide local businesses and organizations with a real solution to an issue or
                  problem that they face within the areas associated with the program

Executive Summary
The practice center project is available across all three campuses and supervised
               by faculty members from all three campuses. The center gives students with new skills
               and experiences with "real world" projects sponsored by industry partners. Students
               work in groups of two performing collaborative team-based projects. Every project
               is supervised by at least one faculty mentor and at least one representative of the
               project-sponsoring industry partner. Projects typically last one semester. Based on
               a project's outcome or the nature of the project, an industry partner may choose to
               sponsor the next phase or a new project for an additional semester. Some flexibility
               is built into this program for situations where the project start date cannot coincide
               with the start of the semester, or where industry partners require students to work
               on multiple projects. However, the selection of projects should be based on some learning
               objectives. There is also some flexibility as to the location where students complete
               project work (at the USF campus and/or sponsoring industry partner facilities).
Benefits
Participating students gain valuable experience along with earning possible stipend
               and credits. These students become more competitive in the job market, and are noticed
               by sponsoring industry partners. Participating students also benefit from the mentoring
               provided by School of Information Systems and Management faculty and industry representatives
               supervising respective projects.
Faculty members benefit by applying their knowledge to "real world" problems, while
               at the same time maintaining currency in their practice skills. They also learn about
               industry problems, technology solutions, and issues, which they can bring to the classroom,
               and to their research.
The business partners benefit in several ways. First, they have the opportunity to
               work with top-quality business analytics and information systems students in order
               to create solutions to projects that benefit them, while leveraging the expertise
               of top faculty members. Companies are able to engage and observe students perform
               projects for future consideration of full-time employment, reducing the cost of recruitment.
Operations
The center is supported by private gifts as well as support from the industry partners
               who benefit from the services performed.
Projects are selected two months before the start of the semester in which students
               work on projects. Applications may come from companies or students themselves.
Participants must be USF students and are selected based on GPA, skill sets, and the
               availability of projects. Honors students are encouraged to apply as project work
               could be part of a honors thesis, subject to the terms of the non-disclosure agreements.
Partners
Information Systems and Management Practice Center Partner$18,000 per semester

Provides funding for two students for 20 hours per week per student (15 weeks).
Funds faculty supervision and research throughout the semester for the students and
                  for the partner 
Projects are accepted on a rolling basis. It is generally the most beneficial for
                  companies to plan for a September-December or January-April timeline. Please allow
                  a period of 4-6 weeks prior to starting for setup.

Contact: Anna Bahvala
Note for all Practice Center PartnersAll required paperwork, including the signing of non-disclosure agreements as required
               by the project partners, and documents as required by USF, must be completed before
               the start of the semester. Also, students are employed by USF, and therefore USF manages
               the payroll processing for students.
Practice center partners have included

3M
Bank of America
Citigroup
Colliers International
FinaMetrics
Fintech
Grow Financial
Jagged Peak
JPMorgan Chase
Kforce
Leapdoctor
Raymond James Financial
SiteWit
Time Customer Service
Trader Planet
US Department of Veterans Affairs
USF Health
Verizon


