
Speakers
A partial list of presenters, panelists and guest speakers for this program is presented
               below.  


Valerie AlexanderValerie Alexander is a renowned expert on happiness and inclusion and the author of
               the Amazon No. 1 seller, "Happiness as a Second Language" and several other popular
               books on happiness and success. She is a globally recognized speaker on the topics
               of happiness in the workplace, unconscious bias and the advancement of women, and
               her TED Talk, “How to Outsmart Your Own Unconscious Bias” has been viewed more than 300,000 times. Alexander was previously a securities lawyer,
               an investment banker, a tech startup CEO and a screenwriter and film director. She
               also writes Christmas movies for the Hallmark Channel.

Jennifer ArnoldJennifer Arnold, MD, MSc, is currently an attending neonatologist and Medical Director
               of the Simulation Center at Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital. She is an experienced
               neonatologist, medical educator, healthcare advocate and simulation researcher with
               a passion for delivering high-quality patient care through innovation, technology
               and effective debriefing.  She completed her undergraduate bachelor of science degrees
               in Biology and Psychology at the University of Miami in Florida. She then completed
               her medical degree at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore, MD and graduated
               in 2000. She attended a Pediatric Residency Program at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh.
               During her fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, she obtained a Master's of Science
               in Medical Education from the University of Pittsburgh. She is Board Certified in
               Neonatal Medicine and is currently the Medical Director of the Simulation Center at
               Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital. Dr. Arnold has a rare type of dwarfism called
               Spondyloepiphyseal Dysplasia Type Strudwick (which involved more than 30 orthopedic
               surgeries). She is a 4-year cancer survivor. Dr. Arnold and her husband Bill are featured
               on TLC's docu-drama, The Little Couple, which follows their personal and professional
               lives and is now in its 10th season. She has also appeared on television programs
               including Oprah, The Today Show, GMA, Dr. OZ, The Doctors, Anderson Cooper and CNN,
               among others.

Susan BeanSusan Bean teaches organizations around the world how to use emotional intelligence
               to cultivate diverse perspectives in the workplace. As an organizational development
               consultant, she works with executive and leadership teams to explore the impact of
               different thought processes and leadership styles on team dynamics and performance.
               She advises them on how to develop as individuals, understand their role within the
               company, and identify the perspectives from which they operate.  Bean understands
               how to effectively align employees at all levels with business strategy across a broad
               spectrum of Fortune 500, non-profit and government organizations. She is a Birkman
               Method Master Trainer and facilitates the Emotional Intelligence & Situational Leadership Certificate for the USF Office of Corporate Training and Professional Education. Bean earned
               a master’s degree in human resource management and organizational development from
               the University of London.

Terry BoydTerry Boyd is a visiting instructor in the Muma College of Business’ School of Information
               Systems and Management. He served 20 years in the Ross College of Business at Franklin
               University in Ohio as chair of human resources, entrepreneurship and MBA programs,
               prior to his appointment as graduate school division chair and then associate dean
               of the college. He is retired and is a professor emeritus at the university.

Derrick BrooksDerrick Brooks was born and raised in Pensacola, Florida. He grew up with many challenges,
               yet reached past all of his struggles and became a first-round NFL draft pick by the
               Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 1995, beginning a 14-year, Hall of Fame career. Prior to playing
               for the Buccaneers, Brooks attended Florida State University where he excelled, not
               only as an athlete, but also as a student. He received a bachelor’s degree and after
               his NFL career, a master’s degree in business communications. His passion for education
               and inspiring young people led him to begin his charitable work in the community,
               which has turned into the array of programs that Derrick Brooks Charities focuses
               on.

Patrice M. BuzzanellPatrice M. Buzzanell is the chair and professor of the Department of Communication
               at USF and endowed visiting professor for the School of Media and Design at Shanghai
               Jiaotong University. She is a fellow and past president of the International Communication
               Association and served as president of the Council of Communication Associations and
               the Organization for the Study of Communication, Language and Gender. Her research
               focuses on career, work-life policy, resilience, gender and engineering design in
               micro-macro contexts. She has published four edited books, more than 200 journal articles,
               chapters and encyclopedia entries, and numerous engineering, education among others.
               She has served on 25 editorial boards (17 current) and on the Oxford Research Encyclopedia
               and other advisory boards. Her NSF grants focus on engineering ethics scales and processes
               as well as design thinking for the professional formation of engineers. Among her
               awards and honors, she recently received ICA’s B. Aubrey Fisher Mentorship Award and
               the Provost Outstanding Mentor Award at Purdue, where she was University Distinguished
               Professor and endowed chair and director of the Susan Bulkeley Butler Center for Leadership
               Excellence.

Jane CastorJane Castor is the 59th Mayor of the City of Tampa. Castor has spent a lifetime in
               service to the community, first as a police officer, then as Tampa’s first female
               chief of police before being elected mayor.  Castor spent 31 years with the Tampa
               Police Department, serving in nearly every capacity and in nearly every neighborhood
               of the city. In October of 2009, Castor later served six years as chief of police.
               Castor worked to reduce major crimes 70% citywide. While chief, she developed and
               successfully executed a progressive policing strategy during the 2012 Republican National
               Convention and oversaw the successful Bollywood Awards, held in America for the first
               time. In addition, she oversaw the multi-jurisdictional security plan for Super Bowl
               XLIII and led the Department of Homeland Security’s Tampa Bay Urban Area Security
               Initiative.  Castor was instrumental in the development of the plan that reorganized
               the police department, consisting of 1,300 officers and employees with a $145 million
               annual budget. Decentralization ensured commanders had the necessary resources to
               fulfill their missions and gave officers the opportunity to immerse themselves within
               the community.  Community outreach was a cornerstone of her career. During her time
               as beat-cop working night shifts, Castor knew the families, business owners, and community
               leaders in her neighborhood and, as chief, she expected every officer to do the same.  She
               graduated from Chamberlain High School and attended the University of Tampa on an
               athletic scholarship.

Tarnisha CliattTarnisha Cliatt is director or community relations and marketing for DuCon, LCC. 
               She leads all community-building initiatives and operational marketing advances for
               Team DuCon (DuCon, LLC and DuCon Plumbing, LLC). She leads its services of MBE and
               Section 3 partnering to engage, include, and empower small, local, and disadvantaged
               businesses and labor candidates. Outside of her marketing role at DuCon, LLC, Cliatt
               serves as the president/founder and CEO of the Manasota Black Chamber of Commerce. 
               The MBCC is focused on advancing the interests of its members and affiliates through
               advocacy, education, business, and economic research, accessing competitive intelligence,
               and forming strategic alliances to maximize opportunities for success.

Braulio ColónBraulio Colón is an experienced non-profit executive and education system reform strategist.
               His leadership experience has focused on Florida state-based programmatic and policy
               development work at the state agency, university, community-based and philanthropic
               levels. He currenlty serves as vice president of Florida Student Success Initiatives
               at the Helios Education Foundation where he leads strategic planning in community
               investment and engagement activities designed to increase student success in Florida,
               particularly in the key metropolitan regions of Tampa, Orlando, and Miami. Prior to
               joining Helios, Colón was executive director and is co-founder of Florida College
               Access Network, an organization based at USF that engages communities for higher education
               by promoting program and policy development designed to influence systemic change,
               improve college-preparation, access and completion rates for limited-income, first-generation
               and underrepresented students.

Donny CrumeDonny Crume is a consultant, volunteer and lifelong learner with more than 20 years
               of professional experience ranging from management consulting to IT delivery and performance.
               His work experience spans the public and private sectors to include health and human
               services, workforce management and property and casualty insurance. His volunteer
               experience includes more than nine years in BSA Scouting, and more than 15 years in
               various youth athletics.  He is passionate about cultural dynamics and the innovation
               and exploration of team development opportunities and process-oriented improvements
               based on accepted-industry leading philosophies and practices. Crume’s current professional
               areas of interest include supporting youth development, organizational change management,
               strategic planning and data exploration.

Steven C. CurrallSteven C. Currall is the seventh president of the University of South Florida. He
               brings three decades of leadership and academic expertise from top research universities,
               both public and private, in the U.S. and abroad. His longest career terms were at
               Rice University and the University of California, Davis. Currall is passionate about
               building institutions of higher education to help students, faculty, staff and communities
               flourish. Before joining USF, Currall was provost and vice president for academic
               affairs at Southern Methodist University. Currall’s scholarly research focuses on
               organizational psychology topics such as innovation, trust, emerging technologies,
               negotiation and corporate governance. He was lead author of a book on university-business-government
               collaboration entitled, Organized Innovation: A Blueprint for Renewing America's Prosperity
               (Oxford University Press), the culmination of a 10-year research project on interdisciplinary
               research involving science, engineering and medicine. Currall earned a PhD in organizational
               behavior from Cornell University, a master’s degree in social psychology from the
               London School of Economics and Political Science and a bachelor’s degree in psychology
               from Baylor University. He is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement
               of Science, a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts (United Kingdom), and a member
               of the Council on Competitiveness.

Terrie DanielTerrie Daniel joined USF to build its Supplier Diversity Program, an effort that will
               offer purchasing opportunities to a wider range of business enterprises. As assistant
               vice president, Daniel is taking the lead on creating the program, working closely
               with purchasing agents, departmental buyers, and the Facilities Management Division
               to build a program that will implement and monitor small, minority, veteran and women-owned
               business participation at USF. She actively represents the university in the business
               community through involvement in associations and organizations that promote the economic
               development of diverse businesses.

Michael DeJongeMichael DeJonge is the chair and professor of Religious Studies at USF. He teaches
               the history of Christian thought, theories and methods in religious studies, modern
               religious thought and theoretical issues in religion and politics. His scholarship
               has focused on the 20th century German theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer, with monographs
               including Bonhoeffer’s Theological Formation (Oxford, 2012), Bonhoeffer’s Reception
               of Luther (Oxford, 2017), and Bonhoeffer on Resistance (Oxford, 2018). He earned a
               PhD in religion from Emory University in 2009. He has been a Fulbright Scholar, a
               fellow of the Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies, a Volkswagen/Mellon
               Fellow at the Leibniz-Institute for European History in Mainz, Germany and Visiting
               Dietrich Bonhoeffer Professor of Theology and Ethics at Union Theological Seminary
               in New York.

Triparna de VreedeTriparna de Vreede is the associate chair of the School of Information Systems and
               Management and academic director of the Master of Science in Management Program. She
               teaches multidisciplinary graduate and undergraduate courses. While at USF, she has
               developed courses such as people analytics and principles of collaboration.  de Vreede earned
               a PhD and a master's degree in industrial and organizational psychology and a master's
               degree in management information systems all from the University of Nebraska at Omaha.
               She received an MBA in human resources and a B.Com. in accounting from Osmania University
               in India.

Tony DungyTony Dungy is a former professional football player and retired NFL coach. Beginning
               his coaching career in 1980, Dungy went on to serve as head coach of the Tampa Bay
               Buccaneers and later the Indianapolis Colts. He guided the Colts to a Super Bowl victory
               in 2007 and later worked as an analyst for NBC's "Football Night in America." In addition,
               Dungy, a committed Christian, has remained active in a number of charitable causes,
               including Big Brothers Big Sisters and the Prison Crusade Ministry.

Eric M. EisenbergEric M. Eisenberg is a professor of communication and, since 2007, the dean of the
               College of Arts and Sciences at the USF. He twice received the National Communication
               Association award for the outstanding research publication in organizational communication,
               as well as the Burlington Foundation award for excellence in teaching. Eisenberg is
               the author of more than 70 articles, chapters and books on the subjects of organizational
               communication, health communication and communication theory. As dean of the largest
               college at USF—with nearly 600 faculty, 18,000 students and a budget of nearly $100
               million—Eisenberg has sharpened the focus of faculty work through the creation of
               three interdisciplinary schools, 22 departments and 10 interdisciplinary research
               centers. Eisenberg graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Rutgers University in 1977 and earned
               a doctorate in organizational communication from Michigan State University in 1982.

Heba El-TallHeba El-Tall is the Hialeah campus director for the Institute for Civic Engagement
               and Democracy at Miami Dade College. She previously worked at the Center for Civic
               Engagement at USF on the St. Petersburg campus and the Office of Community Engagement
               and Partnerships on the USF Tampa campus. She is passionate about having open and
               authentic dialogue around mental health and self-care, creating reciprocal and genuine
               relationships in the community and discussing sustainable approaches to matters of
               social change and diversity/equity/inclusion in the workplace. She earned a master’s
               degree in public administration from the University of West Florida and a bachelor’s
               degree in international relations and affairs from USF.

Victoria EmerickVictoria Emerick has a PhD in biochemistry and certifications in project and change
               management as well as Lean & Six Sigma. Over the last 25 years, she has focused her
               work on strategic operations, continuous improvement and enterprise-level project
               planning and management. In her current role as the global head of sustainability
               strategy and operations, Emerick is responsible for developing innovative approaches
               to advance ESG-sustainability awareness, commitments, efforts and investments across
               the global Bristol-Myers Squibb enterprise.
Emerick is the chair-elect of the Sustatinability I Council Executive Committee for
               The Conference Board, a member of the Biopharma Sustainability Roundtable and CSR
               Board. She has served as the BMS leader for engagements involving the UN Global Compact,
               including the Lead 2030 collaboration with One Young World and the UN Young SDG Innovators
               Program.

Elizabeth FrazierElizabeth Frazier is the executive director of the Lightning Foundation and senior
               vice president of philanthropy and community initiatives. Frazier led a transformation
               of the Lightning Foundation and the Lightning Community Relations departments and
               is responsible for strategic planning and leveraging of the Lightning’s philanthropic
               contributions, managing events and sponsorships, and facilitating relationships with
               community leaders.  She led the development of the Lightning Community Heroes program,
               which has distributed more than $22 million to more than 500 unique non-profits, an
               organization-wide employee volunteer program called C.H.A.R.G.E through which employees
               have donated over 50,000 hours, and the creation and management of dozens of impactful
               community partnership programs through multiple community impact areas. Frazier earned a
               bachelor's degree in comparative literature with a certificate in European cultural
               studies from Princeton University and a master's degree in business administration
               from Darden Graduate School of Business Administration at the University of Virginia.

Stanley G. GrayStanley G. Gray served as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps after graduating
               from the U.S. Naval Academy. He served in training, infantry, artillery, ceremonial
               and reconnaissance units where he commanded four companies for over three years until
               an injury forced him to resign his commission. While in the service, Gray received
               several personal awards for both merit and leadership and he studied at the Marine
               Corps Command and Staff College, Amphibious Warfare School, Airborne School, Scuba
               School and The Marine Corps Amphibious Reconnaissance School. He is a founding member
               of Naval Academy's Minority Association. After his military career, Gray spent more
               than a decade in corporate America, serving as human resources professional for several
               Fortune 100 firms, largely in organizational development, effectiveness and labor/employee
               relations roles. In 2001, Gray created his own human resources practice and developed
               a commercial real estate investment firm that provided housing for renters in the
               Tampa and St. Petersburg areas. He serves on a number of community boards in the region,
               including the Urban Leage of Hillsborough County, and he founded ON Track, a non-profit
               serving children in Title I schools. He is a Life Member of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity.

Steve GriggsSteve Griggs became the president of the Tampa Bay Lightning and Amalie Arena less
               than four years after joining the organization as its chief operating officer. Before
               coming to Tampa Bay, he spent nearly three years serving as executive vice president
               of sales and marketing for the Orlando Magic. During his time in Orlando, Griggs oversaw
               the Magic's corporate partnerships, premium sales and services, season ticket services
               and operations, brand management, event presentation and ticket sales departments.
               Griggs served for eight years as the vice president of sales and service for the Minnesota
               Wild of the National Hockey League and its parent company, Minnesota Sports & Entertainment.
               Prior to joining the Wild, Griggs served as the vice president of corporate sales
               and service for Sportsco International, LP and SkyDome. The Aurora, Ontario, native
               also worked for both the NBA's Toronto Raptors and the NHL's Toronto Maple Leafs as
               the director of ticket sales and service.

Sharon Hanna-WestSharon Hanna-West is a Muma College of Business graduate programs' faculty member
               and the director of the Sustainable Business Concentration at the Patel College of
               Global Sustainability. She teaches in the USF Muma College of Business-Universidad
               San Ignacio de Loyola program in Lima, Peru, and is the former USF Exide Distinguished
               Lecturer in Ethics and Sustainability. Her former business experience includes the
               founding of a multi-million-dollar corporation engaged in international trade. Hanna-West
               teaches courses in ethics and sustainable business practices in the School of Marketing
               and Innovation.

Sheilina Henry Sheilina Henry has served as group vice president of diversity and inclusion for Bloomin’
               Brands since July 2020. She is responsible for leading the Bloomin’ Brands company
               journey toward furthering equality and inclusion, especially in the areas of leadership,
               talent, training and education. Henry has more than 20 years' experience in the restaurant
               industry. She joined Bloomin’ Brands in 2012 as an Outback Steakhouse Joint Venture
               Partner in the Chicago and Wisconsin markets. She relocated to the Restaurant Support
               Center in Tampa in 2014 to lead several large-scale projects. In 2016, Henry returned
               to the Outback Steakhouse team as vice president, leading a team focused on providing
               each restaurant the tools and resources necessary to deliver memorable dining experiences.
               She was promoted to regional vice president for Outback Steakhouse in 2019. Henry
               previously worked for Yum! Brands for 12 years and held various positions within the
               regional operations and training areas. She earned a bachelor’s degree in psychology
               from The Ohio State University and an MBA from DePaul University’s Kellstadt Graduate
               School of Business. She serves on the board of directors for Ladies of Virtue, a transformative
               mentoring and leadership experience for girls, and is a member of the Women’s Foodservice
               Forum.

Miguel Ángel HernándezMiguel Ángel Hernández is the associate dean of students at the University of California
               Irvine. He supervises approximately 22 staff members housed in several functional
               areas within campus life, which include: the LGBT Resource Center, the Center for
               Organizations & Volunteer Programs, the Cross Cultural Center, Student Veterans Center,
               Sorority & Fraternity Life, and the Center for Student Leadership. Over the past 16
               years, Hernández has supervised both graduate and full-time staff in University Housing,
               Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement, Multicultural Services & Programs,
               Center for Leadership & Social Change, and currently the Dean of Students Office.
               In addition, he has served as a guest lecturer for the College of Education at Florida
               State University where he taught both undergraduate and graduate courses focused on
               social justice and leadership.  He was a first-generation college student, earning
               a bachelor’s degree in justice administration from Columbus State University and a
               master’s degree in college student development from Appalachian State University.
               Last year, he completed his doctoral degree in higher education at Florida State University.
               His research focused on DACA student in Florida who engage in social activism.

Diane Price HerndlDiane Price Herndl is the chair and professor in the Department of Women’s & Gender
               Studies at USF. She teaches several undergraduate courses including Politics of Women’s
               Health, Gender and Science Fiction and Women of Color Writers. At the graduate level,
               she teaches Advanced Feminist Theories and Body Politics. Herndl's research focuses
               on the intersection of several disciplines including feminist theory, American literature
               and disability studies. She started working on American novels of the mid-19th century
               that had plots centered on women’s illnesses. Her courses often focus on non-standard
               bodies: technologically enhanced bodies or bodies with disabilities or illnesses.
               Herndl’s scholarship focuses on the cultural discourses of breast cancer, from autobiographies
               to novels; poetry and art from Supreme Court decisions to pink-ribbon campaigns.

Cecil HowardCecil Howard joined USF’s St. Petersburg campus as the new chief diversity officer
               in November, coming from Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania where he served as
               the executive director of social equity. In his new role, he collaborates with students,
               faculty, staff and institutional committees and serve as a liaison to community partners
               regarding initiatives and advances in diversity and inclusion on the St. Petersburg
               campus. His duties intersect with all areas of the institution, including Academic
               Affairs, Human Resources, Student Affairs, and Enrollment Management. He chairs the
               Chancellor’s Advisory Diversity and Inclusion Committee and serve as a liaison to
               diversity officers across the university. Howard grew up in Miami and worked as director
               of the city of Gainesville’s Office of Equal Opportunity from 2009 until early 2015.
               In that position, he contributed to the University of Florida’s diversity action plan.
               He also previously served on the State of Florida Commission on Human Relations. He
               earned a law degree from the Thurgood Marshall School of Law at Texas Southern University
               and a bachelor’s degree in political science from Florida State University. He is
               an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission certified investigator.

Opal HudsonOpal Hudson has spent the last 15 years in local government, and currently serves
               as the director of community and social media relations for the Hillsborough County
               Property Appraiser. In this role, she performs an array of duties including, community
               outreach, process redevelopment, management, policy making/compliance, strategic planning,
               innovation and assessment/administration project management, as well as internal/external
               human relations. She received a bachelor’s degree in political science from USF. Using
               holistic approaches to create systemic diversity, equality and inclusion and systems
               change within the public sector, Hudson seeks to transform local government offices
               into organizations that strive for excellence by tapping into and utilizing maximum
               human potential via emotionally intelligent leadership. She is a certified public
               manager, who is Dare to Lead trained, an alumna of USF’s “Post-Crisis Leadership”
               certificate program, and is a Florida-certified residential appraiser. A female of
               color in a white, male dominated industry, Hudson currently chairs the International
               Association of Assessing Officers Women’s Initiative Network, as well as its new Diversity
               and Inclusion Task Force.

Bruce JohnsonBruce Johnson is executive vice president at Jabil and has served as chief human resources
               officer since January 2017. He joined Jabil in 2015 as vice president of human resources.
               Previously, he was a chief organizational effectiveness officer/executive vice president
               of human resources for C&S Wholesale Grocers in Keene, New Hampshire. Johnson also
               served in senior roles at The Timberland Company in New Hampshire and E.I. Du Pont
               De Nemours and Company in Delaware. He received a bachelor’s degree in history from
               Middlebury College in Vermont. He is the founding director, vice chair of board of
               directors for Pathways Group.

Tony KongDejun “Tony” Kong is an associate professor in the School of Information Systems and
               Management, joining the full-time faculty in August 2019. Prior to his assignment
               at USF, he was a tenured associate professor of management and leadership at the University
               of Houston’s Bauer College of Business. In 2019, he was selected by Poets & Quants
               as one of the 40 best business school professors under the age of 40 in the world,
               and was named an Ascendant Scholar by the Western Academy of Management. He has taught
               courses on negotiation, leadership, managerial decision making, organizational behavior
               and culture at the undergraduate, MBA, Executive MBA, and PhD levels.

Jenny Lay-FlurrieJenny Lay-Flurrie is chief accessibility officer at Microsoft, leading the company’s
               efforts to drive great products, services and websites that empower people and organizations
               to achieve more. Her team is at the forefront of creating positive experiences that
               apply technology to make a difference in the world and the lives of individuals, from
               how we hire and support people with disabilities in employment to innovative technology
               that aims to revolutionize what’s possible for people with disabilities. With the
               help of her team and broad community within Microsoft, Lay-Flurrie leads many initiatives
               to empower people with disabilities both inside and outside of Microsoft. She founded
               the Disability Employee Resource Group at Microsoft and chaired it for 10 years. She
               created the Disability Answer Desk, which provides specialist customer support to
               people with disabilities (over 1 million calls handled to date), hosts the annual
               Microsoft Ability Summit, which focuses on empowering more than 2000 attendees with
               the inclusive and innovative thinking necessary to enable people around the world.
               Instrumental in projects such as Autism Hiring Program, Soundscape and the Microsoft
               Ability Hackathon, which has supported over 500 hackathon teams building technology
               for people with disabilities, Lay-Flurrie was recognized as a technology groundbreaker
               by CEO Satya Nadella in Wired Magazine, and is a contributor to the book, “The Ability
               Hacks."

Moez LimayemMoez Limayem, the Lynn Pippenger Dean of the Muma College of Business, joined the
               University of South Florida in 2012, coming from the Sam M. Walton College of Business
               at the University of Arkansas. Since his arrival as dean, he has raised nearly $100
               million in contributions from a number of donors. The results from his tenure are
               impressive: The college has received three multi-million dollar naming gifts and its
               programs have risen in national rankings.

K. Doreen MacAulayK. Doreen MacAulay is an award-winning instructor in the School of Information Systems
               and Management.  She teaches courses in leadership and organizational behavior to
               undergraduates, graduates and executives.  Her research focuses on the areas of gender
               equity, organizational change, and organizational history. MacAulay was the 2017 Women
               in Leadership and Philanthropy Instructor Award winner for her work on women in STEM
               professions.  She earned a PhD in management from St. Mary's University in Nova Scotia,
               an MBA from the University of New Brunswick and a bachelor's degree in psychology
               from St. Francis Xavier University in Nova Scotia. MacAulay is a member of the Academy
               of Management Association and the Southern and Mid-West Academy of Management Association.
               She has served as a reviewer for several conferences and journals.

Thomas MantzThomas Mantz is the president and CEO of Feeding Tampa Bay. During his tenure with
               the foodbank, the organization has seen significant development across all fronts. 
               Most importantly, meals to the community have grown from 20 million to almost 90 million
               per year – reducing the meal gap across Tampa Bay. In 2018, Feeding Tampa Bay launched
               an ending hunger strategy that includes job training, benefits access and other educational
               services that create capacity and move people towards self-sufficiency. Mantz oversaw
               a fundraising initiative that has resulted in a nearly 500 percent rise with broader
               diversification of revenue streams, increases in partnerships and the implementation
               of a multi-strategy brand-awareness, marketing and development program. Feeding Tampa
               Bay launched other key initiatives, including the founding of the Center for Food
               Security and Healthy Access with USF

Mark MondelloMark Mondello was appointed as CEO and director of Jabil in 2013. He joined Jabil
               in 1992 as a manufacturing supervisor. He was promoted to project manager in 1993,
               named vice president, business development in 1997, senior vice president of business
               development in 1999 and COO in 2002, overseeing global operations, business development,
               new product development, supply chain and information technology. Prior to Jabil,
               Mondello was a commercial and defense-related aerospace project manager for Moog.
               A native of Chicago, he earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from
               the University of South Florida.

Alexis MootooAlexis Nicole Mootoo earned a PhD in government and a graduate certificate in Latin
               American Studies from USF’s School of Interdisciplinary and Global Studies under the
               direction of Professor Bernd Reiter. Mootoo serves as an assistant vice president
               at the University of South Florida and is an adjunct professor for USF’s School of
               Interdisciplinary Global Studies and Humanities.  She is also a fellow in the USF
               Muma College of Business. Mootoo is interested in American and international race
               politics and race relations, comparative politics, and public and foreign policy.
               Her research areas of interest are Brazil and regions with Afro-descendant populations.
               Her dissertation, “Structural Racism: Racists without Racism in Liberal Institutions
               within Colorblind States,” examined how Afro-descendants are competing in publicly
               funded universities in New York City and the city of São Paulo, taking race-based
               affirmative action into consideration.

Haley MossHaley Moss made international headlines for becoming the first documented openly autistic
               attorney admitted to The Florida Bar. She received a Juris Doctor from the University
               of Miami’s School of Law in 2018 and graduated from the University of Florida in 2015
               with bachelor’s degrees in psychology and criminology and law.  Moss is the author
               of “Great Minds Think Differently: Neurodiversity for Lawyers and Other Professionals,”
               to be released in this summer by the American Bar Association. In November, her next
               book, “The Young Autistic Adult’s Independence Survival Guide,” is scheduled for publication.
               Moss also the authored “Middle School: The Stuff Nobody Tells You About” and “A Freshman
               Survival Guide for College Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders.” Her work on neurodiversity,
               autism and disability has also been published in national media outlets. She was appointed
               to the Florida Bar Young Lawyers Division Board of Governors, the Florida Bar Journal
               Editorial Board and the Florida Bar Standing Committee on Diversity & Inclusion. Moss
               serves on the constituency board for the University of Miami – Nova Southeastern University
               Center for Autism & Related Disabilities.

Edwin MouriñoEdwin Mouriño is a senior fellow in the Human Capital Center at The Conference Board.
               He has more than 30 years of experience leading key elements of organizational change
               projects. He is a U.S. Air Force veteran with extensive experience in leadership development
               executive coaching, team development diversity,  learning & development executive
               retreats, and organizational change.  Mouriño has served as a thought leader in his
               areas of focus, enabling a learning organization by integrating organizational strategy
               with a corporate university infrastructure. He has written several articles and is
               the author and co-editor of several books on various human resources topics and is
               founder and president of Human Capital Development: Helping Leaders Help Themselves.

Scott NeilScott Neil has been part of Horse Soldier Bourbon since its inception in 2015. As
               COO, Scott is responsible for national operations, regional production, and corporate
               responsibility functions. Before American Freedom Distillery, Neil worked at the Green
               Beret Foundation as the director of development, where he developed and launched a
               transition and resiliency program for Green Berets titled “The Next Ridgeline.” He
               served in the U.S. Special Forces for 25 years. He actively collaborates with the
               George W. Bush Military Service Initiative and Team 43, a collaboration of former
               veterans and the former president and his staff that focuses on the power of outdoor
               recreational sports. He works with several Veterans Affairs committees and the Senate
               Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship championing key issues facing veterans
               establishing their own businesses. Neil serves as a regular contributor to major news
               and media outlets, including Fox, Fox Business News, CNN, Newsmax, Global News, the
               LA Times and Bloomberg Business Week.

Balaji PadmanabhanBalaji Padmanabhan is the Anderson Professor of Global Management, the director of
               the Center for Analytics & Creativity and a professor in the School of Information
               Systems and Management at USF. Previously, he served as the chair of the department.
               He has created and taught undergraduate, MBA/MS, and doctoral courses in areas related
               to AI and machine learning, business/data analytics and computational thinking. Pamanabhan designs
               analytics-driven algorithms to solve business problems. Padmanabhan's specific interests
               and expertise include AI and machine learning, designing analytics-driven algorithms
               for business applications, managing analytics, building and evaluating predictive
               models, patterns discovery in data, business value of analytics, enabling citizen
               data science and applications of analytics in churn, health care, recommender systems,
               fraud detection and elections. He often works with industry partners on applied research
               and has worked with more than twenty firms on various machine learning and analytics
               initiatives, often with a focus on innovative applications to drive business value.

Corey PoseyJoining USF in 2019 Corey Posey is USF's Sarasota-Manatee campus diversity officer.
               He provides guidance and collaboration for initiatives, programs and trainings for
               the campus and Sarasota-Manatee community in order to promote a culture of inclusion
               and equity. He works collaboratively with the university-wide Office of Diversity,
               Inclusion and Equal Opportunity to share best practices and leverage resources. Posey
               has worked in higher education for two decades, most recently as director of the Office
               of Student Life at Chesapeake College in Wye Mills, Maryland. Before that, Posey held
               a variety of leadership positions in higher education. He served as community partnership
               manager at Ohio University, program consultant for the Ohio Department of Education,
               director of the Office of Multicultural and International Student Programs at Berry
               College, assistant director of the Center for Student Involvement and residence hall
               director at Otterbein University, and assistant director of multicultural affairs
               at Capital University. Posey is a PhD student at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio,
               where he is completing a doctorate in higher education. He earned a master’s degree
               in higher education and student affairs from The Ohio State University; a bachelor’s
               degree in sociology from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore in Princess Anne,
               Maryland; and a bachelor’s degree in social work from Salisbury University, in Salisbury,
               Maryland.

Sandra QuinceSandra Quince is a diversity and inclusion executive responsible for the Global Diversity
               & Inclusion Council. She also leads diversity for Global Human Resources, an organization
               of over 2,500 employees. She supports the CEO and chief diversity and inclusion officer
               in delivering the bank’s global D&I strategy, focused on growing the diverse representation
               of the workforce, promoting an inclusive workplace where all employees have the opportunity
               to achieve their goals and meet the needs of customers. Quince serves the community
               through her contributions to the executive committee and board for Family & Children’s
               Services, the Black Women Business Owners of America Board, the City Year Board and
               as a member of the Oklahoma Center for Nonprofits Board. She is the vice president
               of the Tulsa Chapter of Jack and Jill of America and a member of Delta Sigma Theta
               Sorority as well as immediate past president of the Tulsa Alumnae Chapter. Quince
               is a graduate of Florida State University.

Yvette SeguraYvette Segura is vice president and general manager of USAA's Southeast Regional Office
                  in Tampa, Florida. Segura provides leadership to the 2,600 USAA employees in Tampa
                  and is the senior USAA officer in Florida. Her responsibilities include serving as
                  the primary USAA representative to regional civic, industry and military organizations.
                  She is also the senior on-site integrator/coordinator for Community Affairs, Corporate
                  Communications, Facilities, Information Technology, Business Continuation and People
                  Services. Segura has worked in the insurance industry since 1984 and has been with
                  USAA since February 1989. During her tenure at USAA, she has held a variety of leadership
                  positions in the Property and Casualty Company. Throughout her career with USAA, she
                  has lived in several cities across the USA to include San Antonio, TX, Atlanta, GA,
                  Colorado Springs, CO and Tampa, FL. She holds both a bachelor's degree and a master's
                  degree in business as well as CPCU and CCLA designations. She has held board of director
                  positions with various non-profit organizations in every city she has lived.

Derek ShieldsDerek Shields is a corporate disability inclusion consultant on the Disability:IN
               Inclusion Works team. With a background in disability employment supports, return
               to work programs and training on proven employment strategies for building disability
               inclusive organizations, he works closely with global brands in the Inclusion Works
               Community of Corporations. Shields was responsible for developing the Disability:IN
               Global Directory, a database with country profiles to help companies achieve disability
               inclusion around the world. Shields is a certified Program Management Professional
               with a master’s degree in management and disability services. He co-founded and serves
               as the director of the National Disability Mentoring Coalition and frequently provides
               workshops for young adults with disabilities.

Dawn Siler-NixonDawn Siler-Nixon is an equity partner and diversity and inclusion partner for Ford
               & Harrison, a law firm that specializes in labor and employment law litigation. She
               has decades of experience guiding clients toward creating and executing strategies
               in the field of human resources. She has argued in administrative proceedings and
               state and federal court actions involving sex, age, national origin, race and other
               discrimination claims. She has extensive experience handling Family and Medical Leave
               Act claims and successfully litigated multiple plaintiff age discrimination claims
               in state and federal court. Siler-Nixon is the firm's diversity and inclusion partner
               with responsibility for the oversight and implementation of the firm's diversity strategic
               plan. As the firm's diversity partner, she is a member of the Management Group and
               the firm's seven-person Executive Committee, the firm's highest governing body that
               sets policy and compensation. She is recognized as a Certified Diversity Executive
               through the National Institute for Diversity Certification.

Nadine SmithNadine Smith is the co-founder and CEO of Equality Florida, the state's largest organization
               dedicated to ending discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. 
               A former award-winning journalist turned organizer, Nadine was one of four national
               co-chairs of the 1993 March on Washington. Smith was part of the historic oval office
               meeting between then-President Clinton -- the first such meeting between a sitting
               president and gay community leaders. She served on the founding board of the International
               Gay and Lesbian Youth Organization, which celebrates 30 years in 2014.  Smith is a
               Florida Chamber Foundation Trustee, board member of Green Florida and served on President
               Obama's National Finance Committee. In 2013, she was named one of the the state's
               "Most Powerful and Influential Women" by the Florida Diversity Council. She was also
               given the League of Women Voter's Woman of Distinction Award earlier this year. Smith serves
               on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Florida Advisory Committee.

Shirley B. SmithShirley B. Smith is the director of the Office of Student Diversity and Enrichment
               at the University of South Florida’s Morsani College of Medicine.  She works with
               individuals from diverse socioeconomic, cultural and ethnic backgrounds throughout
               her career and is a champion for diversity and inclusion.
Smith is passionate about improving the lives of individuals living in economically
               depressed and medical undeserved communities. She has established partnerships with
               non-profit organizations, colleges/universities, local high schools and clinical faculty
               to create programs with the focus on increasing medical students’ cultural and linguistic
               competency. She has an ability to connect and communicate effectively with individuals
               from the C-suite to the front desk born from her understanding of executive leadership
               principles and broad experience as a professional development coach, mental health
               counselor and professional adviser.
Smith received a master’s degree in counseling psychology from Boston College and
               a bachelor’s degree from Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, New York.

Kevin SneedKevin Sneed is a tenured professor, founding dean of USF’s College of Pharmacy and
               senior associate vice-president for USF Health. His research and clinical interests
               include the advanced pharmacological treatment of patients with cardio-metabolic disorders,
               examining health care disparities and emerging health technologies. He is a national
               lecturer on these topics.  Recent research interests include the implementation of
               health-equity practices, application of mobile health technologies, digital-health
               applications and sports medicine pharmacology practices. Sneed created USF Health
               Pharmacy Plus and was a co-director of the Community Outreach and Engagement Core
               in the Center for Equal Health, a federally funded Center of Excellence between USF
               Health and the Moffitt Cancer Center. He directs an innovative community initiative
               known as WE-CARE (Workgroup Enhancing Community Advocacy and Research Engagement)
               to improve underserved communities’ participation in clinical research and he is active
               in numerous community health care initiatives. Sneed is a Distinguished Fellow of
               the National Academies of Practice and is a fellow of the National Pharmaceutical
               Association . He received a doctorate in pharmacy from Xavier University of Louisiana’s
               College of Pharmacy and a bachelor’s degree in biology with a concentration in microbiology
               from the University of Central Florida.

Maya TrotzMaya Trotz is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at USF. She directs
               STRONG Coasts, a collaborative national research traineeship program with the University
               of the Virgin Islands to foster food, energy and water solutions with coastal communities
               in Florida, Belize, Barbados and the USVI. She leads the knowledge management component
               of a Green Climate Fund project, “Water Sector Resilience Nexus for Sustainability
               in Barbados.” Trotz served as a PI, Co-PI and senior personnel on grants that include
               National Science Foundation (NSF) Research Experience for Teachers, Research Experience
               for Undergraduates, Partners for International Research and Education. She also was
               involved with the U.S. Department of Education’s Graduate Assistance in Areas of National
               Need and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to broaden participation in STEM for underrepresented
               minorities, teachers and community members in the United States. Trotz is a past president
               of the Association of Environmental Engineering & Science Professors and a board member
               of Fragments of Hope Corp., a coral restoration NGO in Belize. She holds a bachelor’s
               degree in chemical engineering from MIT, and master’s degree and PhD in environmental
               engineering from Stanford University.

Sharon VinciSharon Vinci’s career spans a variety of global HR partnerships, talent management,
               employee engagement, HR mergers and acquisitions and organization effectiveness roles
               with focus on building healthy organizations, strategic talent planning, complex change
               leadership and business transformation while contributing to creating top-line and
               bottom-line business results and helping colleagues achieve their career objectives.
               As a member of Jabil’s HR Leadership Team, Vinci serves as vice president, human resources
               for Jabil’s Regulated Industries Segment.  She had also been the vice president, HR
               leading the Healthcare Division, HR Mergers & Acquisitions, HR Operations, Organizational
               Health and Enterprise HR teams. Prior to joining Jabil in 2014 as U.S. regional HR
               and global employee engagement leader, Vinci worked for a number of large medical
               device and pharmaceutical organizations, leading a variety of human resources initiatives
               within the United States as well as globally. She received a bachelor’s degree in
               accounting from Florida State University

Janelle WellsJanelle E. Wells is an associate professor in the USF Vinik Sport & Entertainment
               Management Program, within the School of Marketing and Innovation. Wells’ experience
               as a collegiate student-athlete and coach led her to teach organizational behavior
               and leadership, and to research the experiences of underrepresented employees. Specifically,
               Wells explores development, access, inequities, and success in leadership; her publications
               and presentations have a worldwide audience. Putting theory into practice, one of
               Wells’ most recent research projects resulted in the co-edited book The Business of Esports: The Wild Wild West on Fire and the establishment of Equity
                  in Esports. In 2015, Wells partnered with the Tampa Bay Lighting to create the Lightning Leadership
               Line – a personal and professional development initiative. In 2018, Wells helped empower
               women as a founding member of the Women in Sports and Events Tampa Bay. In 2020, she
               became a founding research fellow of Wasserman’s The Collective Think Tank, a first-of-its-kind
               initiative between industry, higher education, brands, properties and media companies
               to share data, insights and information to drive real action toward advancing women
               in sports.

David G. WilkinsDavid G. Wilkins, Esq. retired from The Dow Chemical Company in 2014 after 25 years
               as a lawyer and human resource leader. In his last role for Dow, Wilkins served as
               an associate general counsel and as the company’s director of ethics and compliance.
               Previous roles included vice president and general counsel of the Union Carbide Corporation,
               a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow, director of diversity for Dow, Division Counsel
               for Dow’s North American Operations, assistant general counsel and assistant secretary
               for Dow Agrosciences, and a variety of other legal and human resource roles across
               Dow’s U.S. Operations.
