
Business
Round out your skill set and earn the credentials you need to succeed in today’s ultra-competitive
               business landscape. From business analysis to continuous improvement and project management
               to marketing, USF’s dynamic, interactive courses ensure you’re equipped to identify
               challenges, overcome obstacles and develop creative approaches to business growth.
Basic Economic Development Course
Master the essential skills for your role in economic development. Topics include
               strategic planning, business retention and expansion, marketing and attraction, real
               estate development and reuse, financing, and small business development.
Modern Management Tools Certificate
USF’s Modern Management Tools Certificate provides the necessary skills and knowledge
               demanded in a leadership role today. In just two weeks, you’ll gain the practical
               tools and techniques that can transform you from a good manager to an exceptional
               one. 
Strategies for Effective Communication Certificate
Develop invaluable communication skills that can redefine your career and your business
               relationships. The Strategies for Effective Communication Certificate will help you
               master various vital skills, including how to communicate and collaborate in a diverse
               workplace, listen for better understanding, ask effective questions, negotiate and
               deliver bad news.
DEDICATED COHORTS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION
Dedicated cohort offerings specifically for your organization are available for these
               programs. If you have a group of 10+ participants, we can provide a dedicated session
               for your team at your convenience on a schedule that best meets your needs. You may
               also be eligible to receive a group discount. Please email David Hill at djhill4@usf.edu for information on how a dedicated cohort can be organized for your team.
