
Bellini Certification Program

Supporting students get #USFAheadOfTheHerd in the job market.
The Bellini Certification Program is a compilation of employer-led workshops and skill
               development modules integrated into curriculum, geared to develop the soft-skill competencies
               that employers are looking for in the workplace.
The program prepares undergraduate USF Muma College of Business students for successful
               entry into the workforce after graduation throughout their university experience.
Where is the Program?
The program is comprised of four levels, beginning freshmen year, embedded within
               required coursework for all undergraduates ensuring optimization of each student’s
               individualized development and achievement.


Classroom Application

The program is embedded within required coursework for all undergraduates ensuring
                     optimization of each student’s individualized development and achievement.
Divided into four levels within curriculum beginning freshman year, students start
                     with foundational knowledge and work towards mastery. 
Achievements are divided into four icon levels and integrated into the following courses: 

Level 1: Fundamentals

CGS 2100- Computers in Business
GEB 2098 - Business Honors Professional Development I


Level 2: Power Skills

GEB 3033 - Business Workplace Skills and Best Practices 


Level 3: Networking & Internship

QMB 3200 - Business and Economic Statistics II
QMB 3253 - Advanced Statistics          


Level 4: Mastery – Major specific courses




Achievement Icons

Achievements icons are awarded after successful completion of each module within required
                     coursework. 
Icons highlight the developed skillsets students have achieved and that employers
                     are seeking. They are often shared on social media and throughout the interview process
                     for internships and employment opportunities. 

Level 1: Fundamentals - Build a skillset, knowledge base, and begin gaining career
                        clarity.
Level 2: Power Skills - Learn and develop the “soft skills” employers want to see.
                        Recognizing and strengthening communication, teamwork, critical thinking, and problem-solving
                        skills
Level 3: Networking & Internship - Grow your network and gain relevant experience.
Level 4: Mastery - Preparation to secure a job you want with an organization you want
                        to work for




Career Coaching Support

The Bellini Center provides career coaching services to all undergraduate Muma College
                     of Business students. 
Coaching reinforces the skills and concepts introduced in the program with individualized
                     support. 
Students in Levels 3 and 4 are required to meet with a Bellini Career Coach to achieve
                     level completion. 
Schedule an appointment with a coach here.



Bellini Net


The Bellini Certification Program utilizes Bellini Net – powered by Suitable – enabling
                     students to track their progression, engage in career development opportunities and
                     facilitate the integration of course content into their classes.
Students will access Bellini Net via the desktop web-based version and the Suitable
                     app. 

Log in via web-based version with your USF student credentials.
Download via the App Store
Download via Google Play

Need assistance? Contact support@suitable.co



Student Incentives

Students who engage with the Bellini Center, career events and certification program
                     will earn points through Bellini Net- powered by Suitable. In the app, students can
                     track points earned and incentive offerings through the leaderboard. 
More details on fall incentives coming soon! 


Questions? Contact Doug Meyn, Program Director, at dmeyn@usf.edu
