
Purpose

The Women and Leadership Initiative at the Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership exists
               to promote gender equity in the workplace. Currently, there are three programs that
               are part of the initiative’s effort to support the success of women — mentorship for
               MBA students, professional development for women in Tampa Bay and thought leadership events
               and research. Our position is that the pursuit of gender equity is both ethically correct and good
               business practice. We aspire to make gender equity the new normal for the USF community,
               elevating the expectations for how USF graduates will be treated and how they will
               treat others as they enter the workforce.  
Benefactors
The Women and Leadership Initiative was inspired by the success of three important
               benefactors to the Muma College of Business -- Kate Tiedemann, Ellen Cotton and Lynn
               Pippenger -- all powerful women in business in their own right. Their gifts support
               student engagement opportunities, scholarships, innovative practices, research and
               much more. All local to Tampa Bay, the women maintain an active role on campus and
               help to inspire the next generation of business leaders. Learn more about Tiedemann,
               Cotton and Pippenger below.

Kate Tiedemann

Lynn Pippenger

Ellen Cotton

Mentorship
The Women and Leadership Initiative Mentorship Program provides USF MBA and MAcc students
               professional development opportunities and provides students with a toolkit to work
               toward equity for women. Read more.
LEADFORWARDSM PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
LEADFowardSM is a year-long series of roundtables that help empower women who aspire to level-up
               their career 1-2 leadership tiers, or business owners ready to take their company
               to the next level. Read more.
THOUGHT LEADERSHIP 
Through a combination of sponsoring research and producing events, the Women and Leadership
               Initiative helps to elevate the conversation about gender equity in the workplaces
               of Tampa Bay. Read more.
