
Jennifer Cainas

Associate Dean for Financial Management and Undergraduate ProgramsProfessor of Instructionjmcainas@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3313Phone: (813) 974-6519Fax: (813) 974-6528Vita
Jennifer Cainas is the Lynn Pippenger Teaching Fellow in the Lynn Pippenger School
               of Accountancy. She also serves as associate dean for financial management and undergraduate
               programs. She teaches both principles and upper-level financial and managerial courses.
               She has received numerous teaching awards, including the Outstanding Undergraduate
               Teaching Award at the University of South Florida several times.
Her dissertation topic examines certain psychological attributes of entrepreneurial
               CEO's and their proclivity to adopt formalized management control systems. She also
               has research interests in the areas of fraud, fraud prevention, supply chain fraud
               and corporate social responsibility reporting. Cainas also is a licensed CPA in Florida.
               Prior to entering academia, she served as a controller for an international title
               insurance company and worked for a multi-national mortgage company. She currently
               serves as a board member for the West Coast Chapter of FICPA.
She earned a Doctor of Business Administration degree from the University of Florida,
               a master's degree in accounting and a bachelor's degree in accounting from USF.
Teaching

ACG 2021 - Principles of Financial Accounting
ACG 2071 - Principles of Managerial Accounting

Service

Faculty advisor, Beta Alpha Psi
Chair, Muma College of Business Scholarship Committee
Chair, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Scholarship Committee
Chair, USF-FICPA Fall Accounting Conference, 2010, 2016
Member, FICPA Relations with Accounting Educators Committee
Board member, West Coast Chapter of FICPA
Chair, Student Night Event for West Coast Chapter of FICPA

Recent Research

Cainas, J. (2018) “Use Snapchat to Engage Students,” Strategic Finance, 100(2), 67-71.


