Document last updated: 1/3/202 3 
            1  
 
 
 
MAR 4712.791  
Healthcare Marketing  
CRN: 19713, 3.0 credit hours  
Muma College of Business  
School of Marketing & Innovation  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester  Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days  Asynchronous throughout the Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Time  N/A 
Class Meeting Location  Online/Canvas  
Instructor  Dr. Sandy Weiss, DBA, MBA -HCM, RN, CPHQ, CPPS, CSM, PMP  
Email  ssweiss@usf.edu   
LinkedIn  www.linkedin.com/in/sandysingletonweiss     
Teaching Assistant  (TA)  Catalina Tiamson, MEd  
TA Email  ctiamson@usf.edu  
Office Location  MS Teams Meeting  
Office Hours  As needed, virtually, by appointment only. Please reach out and we 
will find a time to meet!    
*Please see the section of the syllabus that outlines expectations for email etiquette. Also, please 
CC our TA on all email correspondence.  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome to the Healthcare Marketing course! At its core, marketing is about creating, building, 
and maintaining business success and, as you know, healthcare is a huge business! No company succeeds without understanding the fundamentals of marketing.  
 
II. University Course Description 
A foundational knowledge of the principles of marketing and their application in healthcare administration including the concepts of marketing strategy, customer/patient orientation, products and services, promotion, distribution, and pricing issues.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
None!  
 IV. Course Purpose  
This course surveys the marketing of goods and services within the healthcare industry. Attention is paid to the impact of marketing on other functional areas of business as well as society, particularly as they relate to healthcare companies and consumers  (patients!) .  
 
 
 
2 V. Course Format  
Online course with discussion posts, quizzes, and other written assignments. Please pay close 
attention to due dates!  You will not succeed in this course if you do not read the rubric carefully or 
submit assignments timely.  
 VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
After completing the course, students should:  
• Be familiar with key marketing principles, concepts, and terminology.  
• Have a basic understanding of the common strategies used by each marketing mix element (product, price, place, promotion) - as they relate to the healthcare field.  
• Develop an appreciation of why a marketing perspective has been embraced by he althcare 
practitioners.  
• Understand the role of marketing within an overall healthcare organization.  
• Identify and evaluate career opportunities in healthcare marketing.  
 VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
Essentials of Health Care Marketing (5th Edition), 2022, Eric N. Berkowitz, Jones & Bartlett Learning, 
Burlington, MA (ISBN: 9781284200157)  
 VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
N/A 
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course  
Success in this course requires consistent, determined effort and study. This is done through chapter readings, asking questions, a variety of quizzes, exams, and other assignments . Students 
are expected to check Canvas daily  and be highly engaged in the course materia l, specifically the 
weekly discussion posts/responses . 
 
Here are two additional resources you may also want to review:  
1. This one -page handout details what the study skill s behaviors of top students look like: 
http://bit.ly/successfulstudentbehaviors
  
2. This 18 -page PDF provides 101 individual tips for effective study skills and note -taking: 
http://bit.ly/studyskillstips   
 
X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued pandemic or hurricane season. Please check Canvas regularly for any pertinent updates regarding 
this.  
 
XI. Communication  
There is a FAQ section/discussion in Canvas for you to post questions about the course that you have. Peers/classmates are encouraged to answer questions, if the answer is known. Please carefully review the syllabus before posting a question. If a question  is personal in nature, or something you are not 
comfortable posting in FAQ, please email your instructor with CC to our TA.  
 Please see professionalism section regarding email etiquette. While responses are generally within one business day, please allow  up to three business days for a response . If by chance I do not respond,  
 
3 please do not take it personally, it is not intentional! If that occurs, please email me again! Also, make 
sure you have my email address correct ssweiss@usf.edu.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
Grade  Points  Grade  Points  Grade  Points  
A > 930  B- 800-829 D+ 670-699 
A- 900-929 C+ 770-799 D 630-669 
B+ 870-899 C 730-769 D- 600-629 
B 830-869 C- 700-729 F ≤ 599  
There will not be rounding of your grade, please do not ask. You are responsible for knowing how you are doing in the course; your grade is determined by your output. You are expected to carefully read the 
syllabus and the rubric for each assignment. If you have questions about assignments, you are 
encouraged to reach out well in advance of due dates.  
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
No assignments are weighted. Each assignment is worth a certain number of points, the points of all assignments equal  1,000 (th us accounts for 100% of your final grade).  
 
 
  
XIV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
**Note that assignments and information within this syllabus are subject to change at the discretion 
of the instructor. If changes are made, you will receive communication via an announcement on 
Canvas. It is the responsibility of the student to check Canv as daily!   Week Assigned 
Reading
C
hapter(s)Assignment Syllabus 
Quiz PointsVideo 
Introduction 
P
ointsDiscussion 
Post PointsWriting 
Assignment 
P
ointsQuiz 
Points
Syllabus Quiz 20
V
ideo Introduction 90
2 2 Discussion Post 50
3 3 Discussion Post 50
4 4 & 5 Discussion Post 50
5 Quiz 1 (Chapters 1-5) 50
6 6 & 8 Discussion Post 50
7 7 Writing Assignment 120
8 9 Discussion Post 50
9 10 Discussion Post 50
10 Quiz 2 (Chapters 6-10) 50
11 11 Discussion Post 50
12 12 Writing Assignment 120
13 13 Discussion Post 50
14 14 Discussion Post 50
15 15 & 16 Discussion Post 50
16 Quiz 3 (Chapters 11-16) 50
2% 9% 50% 24% 15%1 1
SPRING BREAK
Assignment type total % of grade= 
 
4  
Assignment Overview**  
Syllabus Quiz:  
THIS IS USED TO TAKE FIRST DAY ATTENDENCE AND MUST BE TAKEN BY MIDWEEK on the FIRST WEEK 
OF THE SEMESTER. YOU WILL BE MARKED ABSENT (and subsequently dropped) FROM THE CLASS IF 
YOU DO NOT COMPLETE THIS TIMELY. The quiz is open book (e.g., use your syllabus!), and you may take it two times. The highest score will be retained and recorded. More information can be found on Canvas.  
 Introduction: Since this as an online course, our interaction is somewhat limited compared to a face -to-face classroom 
setting. W e will kick the semester off by posting video introductions. Please introduce yourself; feel free 
to share any personal details you would like with the class (not mandatory), what your major is, what you hope to accomplish or learn by the end of the semest er, any fears or concerns you have going into the 
semester, and what you are most excited to learn about! Please also include any academic or career goals that you would like to share with the class. In addition to the video, you must provide a typed summa ry 
within the body of the discussion (or ensure that your video utilizes closed captioning).  This assignment 
is graded based on completion. While responses to other students are not required, they are strongly encouraged! Late submissions for this assignme nt will result in a zero, emailing the assignment to Dr. 
Weiss does not count as a submission. It is your responsibility to upload your assignment timely. If you have problems uploading your video, please reach out to IT.  
  Here are instructions on how to  post a video within the discussion (you may also use your own YouTube 
account if you choose to):  
https://community.canvasl ms.com/t5/Instructor -Guide/How -do-I-record -media -using- the-Rich -Content-
Editor -as-an/ta -p/864   
 Discussion Posts (Initial Discussion Post and Post Responses):  Successful completion of this course requires that you actively participate in discussion posts (assigned in the module and post prompts are detailed in the table at the end of this document).  Since we do not 
“meet” as a class, these discussion posts are designed to make the course engaging and highly interactive!   You are expected to submit your initial post prior to midnight (eastern time zone) on Wednesday within the week of the specific mo dule, and you must respond to two classmates’ posts prior to midnight on 
Sunday of that same week (11:59pm ET) unless otherwise noted in Canvas via announcement or post. You must submit your post text within the discussion board, not as a Word doc, attachment, or email to the instructor.    
Posts must utilize references and be substantial, significant, and completely address all elements of the prompt. A few sentence initial post or post response is not acceptable, and your grade will reflect this. Aim to p rovide a minimum of two reference for initial posts and responses. You are expected to cite the 
textbook and any other supplemental material used as a resource in your post.  
 The earlier you post, the more time everyone has to create thoughtful, rich, and  detailed post 
responses. It also allows your instructor more time to read and assist with the development of a more 
robust understanding of the topic. You may post up to two weeks in advance; the modules will be 
open, and the discussion will be available to you ahead of time. Late initial posts  will be accepted until 
Sunday at 11:59pm of the week they are due, but there is a 20% penalty per day! Late post responses 
will NOT be accepted. (e.g. if you post your initial post Thursday, the highest grade possib le is 80% on  
 
5 that portion of the assignment, and if you post on Sunday the highest possible score you can receive for 
that position of the assignment is 20%)  You should anticipate seeing a grade approximately three 
business days after the deadline has clos ed (by Wednesday evening) , though that is subject to change 
depending upon the instructor’s schedule. If the posting of grades is significantly delayed, you will be 
notified via an announcement in Canvas.   
CAREFULLY REVIEW THE RUBRIC (attached in the module). To receive 100% you must go BEYOND the 
minimum requirements.  
If you are struggling with deadlines, please reach out to your instructor BEFORE reaching an assignment deadline.  
 Quizzes : 
You are encoura ged to not wait until the last day or final hours to take the exam or quizzes; they will be 
available for you to take approximately one week prior to the due date. It is the responsibility of the student to complete all assigned readings and be prepared! Y ou must use Honorlock for these exams! 
These assessments will cover material from the chapters noted in the schedule. You will NOT receive a study guide for exams or quizzes, but they are OPEN BOOK (electronic or paperback/physical copy OK).  
While they are  open book (book, notes, and PowerPoints), they are timed, so please complete readings 
before attempting to take the exam (time details noted in the module). The questions may be a mix of multiple choice and true/false.  
 If you experience technical difficulties, do not contact your instructor. You must reach out to Honorlock or USF IT (depending upon the issue). Note : This is another great reason to take the exam as early as 
possible.  
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and video testing 
requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an 
agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course 
before the end of the drop/add period.  
 
Online exams within this course require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a 
webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand t hat 
this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any 
private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid 
any concerns in this regard, students should selec t private spaces for the testing.  The University library 
and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with 
concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructo r or 
advisor.  Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third party privacy rights and 
accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third party privacy concerns.   Setup information 
will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about online proctoring 
you can visit the  online proctoring student FAQ . 
 There are two major writing assignments  in this course. Please visit Canvas for more information! 
 
For all writing in this course:  
Please use APA formatting for citing sources in your posts and APA format for any writing assignments: 
https://owl.pur due.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/in_text
_citations_the_basics.html   
 
6  
Writing resources that you are encouraged to utilize:  
USF Online Writing Tutoring  
This resource receives your work and then takes 1 -2 days to turnaround back to you.   You will not be 
able to dialogue with the tutor who will spend an hour max on reviewing your work. Click the link below 
to see the instructions, submission format requirements, and more details about this resource.  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -life/student -success- center/writing/writing -
tutoring.aspx  (Links to an external site.)  
If you have questions after receiving your work back, it is advised to schedule a live Academic Writing 
Session (link below).  There are limited appointments, and for the month of November only  the first 
three Wednesdays are currently available. If you think you will need assistance based on the feedback 
you received last week, we recommend you preschedule an appointment in anticipation of that.   
 
Schedule a live Academic Writing Session with a USF St. Pete Online Tutor:  
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/USFSPOnlineTutoringSummer2020 @usfedu.onmicrosoft.c
om/bookings/s/m87g96dNwECST__T -UrwhQ2  (Links to an external site.)   
Please schedule meetings in anticipation of needing assistance since there is limited assistance 
available.   
 
Grammarly for grammar and spelling checks:  
https://www.grammarly.com/  (Links to an external site.)   
This is an automated resource you can submit your work to and receive instant feedback.   
 
Citation Assistance : 
https://lib.stpetersburg.usf.edu/Citations  (Links to an external site.)  
 
Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination: 
Grades will be posted to Canvas as quickly as possible. Allow at least one week  and up to two weeks  
from the assignment due date. If grading will be significantly delayed, you will see an announcement in 
Canvas.  
 
XV. Course Schedule: 
See table at the end of this document.  
 
XVI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies : 
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses at USF . Be sure to review 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 XVII. Course Policies: Grades  
 Late Work Policy : There are no make- ups for writing, quizzes, or exams (any assignment in this course). 
Late initial posts are only accepted as outlined in the rubric, with substantial penalty. No late quizzes, 
exams, writing assignments, or discussion post responses are ac cepted in this course. Please work ahead 
and do not wait until the last minute to submit an assignment.  
  
 
7 Extra Credit Policy : There may be the opportunity for extra credit in this course. Your professor will let 
you know when or if that opportunity arises . Do not ask your professor for extra credit, that is not 
appropriate.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the 
student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time 
limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate st udents, this 
time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever 
is appropriate.  
 
Attendance Policy: Your professor does not take attendance, but the expectation is that you submit 
your weekly assignments timely and are an engaged member of the class. This  is an online course that 
has weekly assignments . Students are expected to participate and complete assignments timely, as 
outlined within this document.  
 
Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with 
complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
There are no make- up assignments in this course. The due dates are outlined in advance. If you 
anticipate having an issue completing the assignment timely, please organize your schedule to complete 
the assignment early.   Final Examinations Policy :  
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination policy . (Note: 
There is not a final exam in this course)  
 
XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media   
 
Canvas :   
 
8 This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu
. 
 Online Exam Proctoring :  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including the online  terms  and video  testing  
requirements,  to determine if they  wish  to remai n in the course.  Enrollment  in the course  is an 
agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect to drop  or withdraw  from  this course  
before  the end of the drop/add period.   
 
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be 
required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  
understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased and controlled  by the student  and that 
recordings  from any private  residence  must  be done  with  the permission  of any person residing in the 
residence.   
 
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with  
concerns  may  discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  their  instructor  or 
advisor.  
 
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all 
responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.   
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring that they take  all exams  using a reliable  computer  and 
high -speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.   
 
To use Honorlock,  students  are required to download and install the Honorlock  G oogle  Chrome  
extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF online  proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  
student  resources .   
 WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication:  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students  (NOT  your  professor) , it is important to remember that academic integrity policies still 
apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is prohibited by 
the official 
regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an examination. Students are expected and 
required to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.  
 
XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based 
on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal 
access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required 
to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The 
Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX 
report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. 
For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title - 
 
9 ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential 
resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974- 5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, 
such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com 
and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese website s (including uploading proprietary materials) 
constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
Professionalism Policy:  
This is a business course. You are expected to act professionally. Emails to Dr. Weiss should be 
professional, and if they are not, they may not be responded to.   
-Preferred method of contact is via USF email (ssweiss@usf.edu). Do not email your instructor from your 
personal email account. Your instructor will NOT respond to emails from personal email accounts!  
-Please reference the course prefix and number, including section in your email subject line - Salutation 
should be professional (Hi Dr. Weiss, Dear  Dr. Weiss, etc. Something along the lines of Hey, Hey Prof, 
Mrs. Weiss, or Sandy  is not acceptable ). 
-Before asking a question, please review the syllabus to ensure that what you are asking is not 
addressed. Be very specific with your question/request. If  the question is something that may benefit 
other students, post it in the course FAQ section in Canvas.  
-Please allow up to three business days for a response  
-CC our TA, Catalina on your email: Ctiamson@usf.edu    
 
Here are a few links that provide additional guidance on email etiquette:  
https://marktomforde.com/academic/undergraduates/Email-Etiquette.html     
https://academicpositions.com/career -advice/how -to-email-a- professor   
 
 End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized. Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors may  use to 
quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and el ectronic format. After the assignment is processed, as 
instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com
. Essays are due at 
turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines : 
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be 
constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.    
 
10 2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people 
in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion 
board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions 
or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations : 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.
 
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services : 
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support :  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
 
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy : 
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center : 
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
  
 
11 Tutoring : 
The Tutoring Hub offers free tu toring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio : 
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XXI.  Important Dates to Remember : 
          For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
   
  
 
12  
 
   Week Assigned 
Reading
C
hapter(s)Assignment Syllabus 
Quiz PointsVideo 
Introduction 
P
ointsDiscussion 
Post PointsWriting 
Assignment 
P
ointsQuiz 
Points
Syllabus Quiz 20
V
ideo Introduction 90
2 2 Discussion Post 50
3 3 Discussion Post 50
4 4 & 5 Discussion Post 50
5 Quiz 1 (Chapters 1-5) 50
6 6 & 8 Discussion Post 50
7 7 Writing Assignment 120
8 9 Discussion Post 50
9 10 Discussion Post 50
10 Quiz 2 (Chapters 6-10) 50
11 11 Discussion Post 50
12 12 Writing Assignment 120
13 13 Discussion Post 50
14 14 Discussion Post 50
15 15 & 16 Discussion Post 50
16 Quiz 3 (Chapters 11-16) 50
2% 9% 50% 24% 15%1 1
SPRING BREAK
Assignment type total % of grade= 
 
13 Week  Assigned Reading  
Chapter(s)  Assignment  Points Per 
Assignment  Comments  
1 1- The Meaning of 
Marketing  Syllabus Quiz  20 DO NOT COMPLETE THE SYLLABUS QUIZ LATE - YOU WILL 
BE DROPPED FROM THE COURSE!  Video Introduction  90 
2 2- Marketing Strategy  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you 
must respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on 
Sunday  
(must complete all components of this prompt)  
1a- Define what a Mission, Vision, and Values (MVV) 
statemen is.  
1b- Research at least two organization's Mission, Vision, 
and Values statements.  
1c- Find marketing campaigns of these organizations and 
discuss how they align with their MVV.  
3 3- The Environment of 
Marketing Strategy  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you 
must respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on 
Sunday  
(choose one option)  
1. Define and discuss HIPAA. How can this impact a 
healthcare organization's marketing plan? What special 
considerations need to be given to keep HIP AA in regard 
to marketing?  
2. Discuss at least three of the nine areas that are closely 
monitored by the DOJ and FTC. Provide specific real -
world example of each and discuss what the potential 
issues or concerns are/were.  
4 4- Buyer Behavior  
&  
5- Marketing Research  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(choose one option)  
1. Discuss how quality can impact consumer decision 
making process. Be very specific and provide at least two 
examples. For more information on this, please also 
review: https://www.cms.gov/medicare/provider -
enrollment -and-
certification/certificationandcomplianc/fsqrs  
2. Review Exhibit 5 -2 in your text (Useful Online 
Marketing Sources) and discuss specific uses of at least 
three of the tools.  
5   Quiz 1 (Chapters 1 -
5) 50          
 
14 6 6- Marketing 
Segmentation  
&  
8- Marketing in the 
Digital Age  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(choose one option)  
1. Review table 6 -3 in your text (Population Segments and 
the Multifaceted Implications to Respond to their Needs) 
and provide real-world examples of marketing campaigns 
that target specific population segments (provide a 
minimum of three examples).  
2. Discuss the unique challenges that marketing 
campaigns face when targeting Gen Z (or pick another 
generation, if you prefer). Provide unique examples of at 
least three expectations. If you are of th is generation or 
know someone form this generation, feel free to leverage 
your experience to discuss this!  
3. Define the internet of things (IoT). Describe at least 
three real -world marketing campaigns for IoT related 
services. Identify strengths or weaknesses in these 
marketing plans during your description of the 
campaigns.  
7 7- Developing 
Customer Loyalty  Writing Assignment  120   
8 9- Product Strategy  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(choose one option)  
1. Discuss the importance of patient satisfaction and the 
relationship between patient satisfaction and customer 
loyalty. Review the HCAHPS survey tool and discuss how 
marketing can use this informat ion to promote the 
organization. This link is helpful (also mentioned in 
Chapter 11, pg. 525): https://www.hcahpsonline.org/en/  
Note: If you plan to work in hospital marketing, this will 
be incredibly useful and practical for you to understand.  
2. Discuss  each of the Five I's of Service and how the pose 
additional challenges within marketing in the healthcare 
industry.   
 
15 9 10- Prices  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(choose one option)  
1. The text mentions a shift from a fee- for-service 
approach to a value based care approach, this is where 
reimbursement is based on patient outcomes. While 
marketing is not responsible for quality of care delivered 
and patient s atisfaction, the importance of having a basic 
understanding of these concepts can not be understated. 
Assume you work in marketing for a large healthcare 
organization, describe how this might impact your role.  
2. Define and discuss the four cost concepts and provide 
multiple examples of each.  
SPRING BREAK  
10   Quiz 2 (Chapters 6 -
10) 50   
11 11- Distribution  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(Choose one option)  
1. Define and discuss channels of distribution. Discuss 
alternative channels and provide multiple examples. 
Expand on the value this has to the consumer (patient) 
and why this is so important.  
2. Define vertical marketing systems. Discuss the 
benef it(s) from the PATIENT and the COMPANY 
perspective.   
12 12- Promotion  Writing Assignment  120   
13 13- Advertising  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(must complete all components of this prompt)  
1a. Discuss the elements of the communication process 
(Figure 12 -1).  
1b. Discuss the value and role of source credibility in this 
process and incorporate an explanation of the 
importance of correctly citing your sources and why this 
is important.  
1c. Discuss how empathy can be used throughout this 
process. (Empathy is having the ability to put yourself in 
someone else's situation/circumstances. I encourage 
finding research out there on this - it's quite fascinating 
and will help you regardless of what your future career is)   
 
16  
  
All assignments subject to change at the discretion of the instructor. Please visit Canvas for the most up to date information!  
 14 14- Sales and 
Management  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(must complete all components of this prompt)  
1a. Find at least two jobs that may be of interest to you in 
the future (when you graduate or later in your career is 
OK) These jobs should be healthcare and/or marketing 
focused.  
1b. Discuss each of the jobs (provide a link to the job 
posting). Wh at are the educational and experience 
requirements  for this job?  
1c. Review the job description roles/responsibilities. 
Discuss what skills you currently possess that are 
addressed in the job description and discuss skills that 
you may need to build on in  order to meet the criteria to 
succeed in this role.  
Note: this assignment is meant to help you all of on your 
journey/ when done with this course. You can look for a 
potential job/title that you may want when your 
graduate, or it could be a goal job for later in your career. 
If you do not wish to do something healthcare or karting 
related, please discuss with Dr. Weiss and Catalina for 
approval prior to posting. Dr. Weiss recommends using 
LinkedIn. Also, this is a good time to connect with your 
classmates via LinkedIn if you are ant already connected. 
This can be a valuable networking tool to leverage 
throughout your career!  
15 15- Controlling and 
Monitoring  
&  
16- Ethical 
Considerations in 
Marketing  Discussion Post  50 Initial post due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, and you must 
respond to two student's posts by 11:59pm on Sunday  
(Choose one option)  
1. Describe the scope and the components of the 
marketing audit. Discuss each of the major and secondary 
purposes. What is the value of the marketing audit?  
2. Discuss each of the ethical values (Figure 16 -1). After 
defining each of the value discuss why each these are so 
important to the organization and the customer (patient).  
16   Quiz 3 (Chapters 
11-16) 50 YOU MUST SUBMIT THE QUIZ BY WEDNESDAY at 
11:59pm. No late submissions will be considered!  