DBA Course Syllabus  
GEB 6930  Interv iew Rese arch Methods  
Spring Semester  
 
    
  
Syllabus for Research Methods in Structured Interview Methods  
Matthew Mullarkey, Ph.D.                 
Office: CIS2085                                                                
Mobile:   440.554.3624                                                     
Email:   mmullarkey@usf.edu                                          
Call/email for appointment as needed.  
  
Course Objectives  
This course is designed to teach research methods in the areas of organizational performa nce (leadership, innovation, 
entrepreneurship, operations, improvement, ethics, sustainability, etc.) through the conduct of in -class research worthy 
structured interviews that generate a research contribution on the part of the student.  
The course introdu ces students to the:  
1. The conduct of structured interviews as a research method for data collection.  
2. The conduct of interview analysis and evaluation for the purpose of generating key insights into a phenomenon 
of interes t. 
3. Thought leaders across the spectrum of business leadership that can be interviewed to generate knowledge.  
4. The process of communicating interview research through the submission of a co -authored research article.  
Course policies and logistics (no deviati ons from  DBA and USF standards ) 
Policies specific to this course are as follows:  
1. Activities : All course activities will be conducted via Canvas, accessed at  https: //my.usf.edu  (Links  to an external  
site.)  
2. Grading:  This course follows the standard DBA grading policy, with satisfactory work completed on time 
receiving a grade of A. Work that is not deemed sufficiently developed to be considered satisfactory must be 
revised to a satisfactory level. In the event such re visions run past the end of the semester, a grade of B will be 
awarded upon satisfactory completion.  
3. Academic Integrity:  The course subscribes to all academic integrity requirements set forth by the University of 
South Florida.  
4. “Unofficial Sunday” Policy:  At the request of participants or as planned by the instructor, unofficial Sunday 
sessions may be offered to provide participants with additional assistance or simply to allow for informal 
discussions with faculty. These sessions are not part of the offici al curriculum and attendance of these is entirely 
voluntary.  
Policies applying to all DBA courses, the Muma College of Business and/or the University of South Florida can be found 
under  Standard Course Policies  
Course Topics  
Content to be covered in this course includes the following:  
1. Reading: Selected Chapters and Topics in "Interviewing as Qualitative Research" by Irving Seidman.  
2. Research worthy interviews of four thought leaders in the areas of organizational sustainability and ethics.  3. Each thought leader will be interviewed using a three interview series (conducted during one resident four hour 
class session) in conjunction with p p. 20 -23 in the reference book.   Each interview series will be assigned to 
approximately four member student team.  
4. Each student team will prepare the interview, conduct their interview, code and analyze the interview post -
conduct, write and submit a resear ch worthy article on the interview series they conducted.  
Learning Outcomes  
Upon completing this course, the participant should be able to:  
1. Conduct research worthy social science interviews.  
2. Analyze interview records for research artifacts that inform rese arch and practice.  
3. Write research article(s) on interview research conducted.  
Readings  
The following books and readings will be used in this course:  
Siedman, I. (2013) Interviewing as Qualitative Research - A guide for researchers in education & the social sciences. Fourth 
Edition. Teachers College Press, Teachers College, Columbia, New York & London.  
Saldana, J.M. (2015) The Coding Manual for Qualitat ive Researchers. Third Edition. Sage Publications Ltd, Los Angeles, 
London.  
Course Schedule  
  
 Dates of 
Activity   Description of Activity   Estimated Time  
(Hours)   Online  
(Y or N)  
Prior to January   Review Siedman concentrating on Ch. 2 & 6.  6 hours reading   As 
needed  Resident 
Weekend   Review Saldana concentrating on CH. 3, Appendix A, and 
Appendix C.  
 Prepare for the interview with questions based upon  
 Interview 1, 2, or 3 chosen for student's group including:  
 Define roles in interview - questioner, scribe, observer.  
 Define questions - all questions should be written, open  ended, 
ordered.  
 Practice/pilot interview as a group - brainstorm pivots in  the 
interview that are possible.  3-5 hours prep &  
organizing interview 
questio ns 
January  
Friday    Thoughts on the topic - Interviewee 1  
  Interview One - Group 1  
  Interview Two - Group 2  
  Interview Three - Group 3   25 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes   In class  
 January 
Saturday    Thoughts on the topic - Sensemaking & Coding  
  Interview 1 Reflections  
  Sensemaking Discussion  
  Coding Workshop    
  
  
   In class  
Prior to 
February  
Resident 
Weekend   Review Siedman concentrating on Ch. 8, 9, & Appendix  
 Analyze, interpret & share inte rview material.   3 hours reading  
 5-8 hours  
 8-10 hours   As 
needed   Draft Qual. Research Interview Article - Thematic, Profile, 
Other  
 February 
Friday    Thoughts on the topic - Interviewee 2  
  Interview One - Group 1  
  Interview Two - Group 2  
  Interview Three - Group 3   25 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes   In class  
 February 
Saturday    Thoughts on the topic - Interviewee 3  
  Interview One - Group 1  
  Interview Two - Group 2  
  Interview Three - Group 3   25 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes  
 45 minutes   In class  
 Prior to March  
 Resident 
Weekend   Review Saldana as needed to determine coding and authoring 
approach.  
 Analyze, interpret & share interview material.  
 Draft Qual. Research Interview Article - Thematic, Profile, 
Other  
 Submit DRAFT Interview Article in CANVAS   3 hours reading  
 5-8 hours  
 8-10 hours   As 
needed  
 March  
Friday   Group presentations of Research, Lessons Learned, and 
Reflections   4 hours   In class  
 Post March   Upload Final Interview Article in CANVAS   1-5 hours   As 
needed   Resident 
Weekend  
        
        
Specific due dates can be found below. Detailed descriptions of all activities can be found under  Modules List  
Course Summary:  
Date  Details  Due 
Sat Jan 14, 2023  Assignment  Reflection: Interview Day 1  due by  11:59pm  
Fri Feb 10, 2023  Assignment  Reflection: Interview Day 2  due by  11:59pm  
Sat Feb 11, 2023  Assignment  Reflection: Interview Day 3  due by  11:59pm  
Sun Feb 19, 2023  Assignment  Submit DRAFT Interview Article  due by  11:59pm  
Sat Mar 4, 2023  Assignment  Submit Quirkos Export File  due by  11:59pm  
Thu Mar 9, 2023  Assignment  Group PowerPoints - Lessons Learned  due by  12:01pm  
Assignment  Submit FINAL Intervi ew Article  due by  11:59pm  
 