  
 
 
 
 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Rouzbeh Behnia  
Office Location:  Sarasota Campus – C266  
Office Hours:    Online ( MS Teams) and in -person  (with 
appointment at  CIS2055) – M 1pm -3pm  
Phone Number:   941-359-4605  
Email:  behnia@usf.edu  Semester:  Spring 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  Asynchronous Online  
Class Meeting Time:  Asynchron ous Online  
Delivery Method:  Asynchronous Online  
Class Meeting Location:  Online, Off -
campus  
 
COURSE PREREQUISITES: ISM 4220   
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION:  
Introduction to cloud architecture  fundamentals, principles and practices and their application in cloud adoption 
and implementation. Exposure to latest thinking on cloud native architectures, cloud technology service s, cloud 
performance, and cloud security.  
 
COURSE OBJECTIVES :  
The objective of this course is to introduce students to cloud  architecture  fundamentals, principles and practices . 
Students learn to undertake organizational decision s related to cloud adoption and implementation. Students are 
to be  exposed to latest thinking on cloud native architectures, cloud services, performance  requirements, 
infrastructure, and security.  Students learn to architect effective and organizationally aligned cloud computing 
solutions by addressing cloud computing fundamentals, cloud architecture considerations, cloud technology 
service selection, and cloud computing security controls.  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:   
L., J. K., & Goessling, S. (2018).  Architecting cloud computing solutions:  Build cloud strategies that align 
technology and ec onomics while effectively managing risk . Packt Publishing, Limited.  ISBN: 9781788472425 ,  
The textbook is available online at the USF library.   
 
Winkler, V. J. (2011). Securing the Cloud: Cloud computer Security techniques and tactics.  Elsevier . ISBN -13: 
978-1597495929  
The textbook is available online at the USF library.   
  
Christoph Fehling, Frank Leymann, Ralph Retter, Walter Schupeck, and Peter Arbitter. Cloud Computing 
Patterns. Springer, 2014.   ISBN -13: 978-3709115671  
The textboo k is available online at the USF library.   
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL READINGS:  
• External websites and other assigned readings and w eekly instructor notes, videos and/or audio files  
 ISM 426 3 
Cloud Solution Architectures  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/4/2023  
 COURSE TOPICS: This course will cover the following content areas:  
• Introduction to cloud computing  
• Fundamentals  of cloud: IaaS, PaaS, SaaS and AaaS  
• Cloud computing architectur es – baseline models  
• Cloud solution reference architectures  
• Cloud architecture operational requirements  
• Cloud-native a rchitecture  - the pri nciple of architecting for the c loud 
• Cloud governance and change management  
• Security and technical architecture requirements  
• Legal, regulatory and compliance requirements  
• Cloud virtualization  
• Cloud -based services & clients  
 
Student learning outcomes:  
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
• Explain cloud computing principles & concepts  
• Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing, including SaaS, PaaS,  
IaaS, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, etc.  
• Recognize cloud computing standards  
• Summarize cloud computing implementation strategies  
• Design cloud architectures that support specific business cases  
• Design, modify, and aggregate baseline cloud architectures  
• Choose the appropriate technologies, algorithms, and approaches for the related  
issues  
 
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
Canvas Technical Support    
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources 
in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact the help desk 
by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing  help@usf.edu.   
IT website for the Tampa campus.   
IT website for the St. Pete campus.   
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.   
 
COURSE LOGISTICS:  
1. Please only use your USF email to email me and use “ISM4263” in the subject line of your 
email (no spaces) to help me filter emails.  
2. Deliverables are due by the end of day on the due date (11:59 pm).  
 
Covid Policy (Fall 2022)  
Students should not attend class if they are ill, particularly if they have fever and/or    
gastrointestinal symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as a sneezing, runny nose, sore throat 
or coughing.  Students experiencing any of these symptoms should contact Student Health Services 
immediately (813 -974-2331) for appropriate medical guidance and to obtain a verification of care 
letter.  To be approved for missed classes, late assignments or missed examinations a verification 
of care letter must be presented by the student to the faculty member upon return to class.   
 
  First Day Attendance Pol icy 
Please complete the first day attendance self -introduction discussion no later than the first 
Thursday of class by 11:59Pm. Students who don’t complete the first day activity run the risk of 
being dropped from the course.   
 
 
GRADING POLICIES  
• Makeup Ex am Policy : Make up opportunities will only be provided with a valid reason, for instance, 
medical related emergencies.  
• Late Submission Policy:  All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. of the due 
date. Late submissions will only be accepted with a valid reason.  It is okay for students to work ahead 
and complete all assignments, labs, and tests if they desire, but no makeups or extra credit will be offered.   
• Exam Retention Policy : After exams are graded, the instructor will re view the examination with the 
class and collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, and 
then they will be destroyed.  
 
 
GRADING SCALE  
USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examina tion prior to the semester’s 
drop/withdraw date (please refer to important dates on page 1 of this syllabus). Student performance for this 
course will be evaluated based on tests, assignments, and quizzes, as detailed below. Below is a summary for the 
determination of the final grade . 
 
A+ = 97 -100; A=94 -96; A - =90-93; B+ = 87 -89; B=84 -86; B - = 80-83;  
C+=77 -79; C = 74 -76; C - + 70-73; D = 60 - 69; F = 59 or below  
 
GRADE  CATEGORIES  AND WEIGHTS  
 
   
 
 
Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
 
Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours during 
the work week. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one week of the posted 
deadline, and feedback on final project within two weeks of the posted by the final grading per iod. 
You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas  
 
USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic integrity and grievances, Deliverables  Unit weight  Total weight  
Participation - Discussions (5pts ea.) 
Lecture knowledge checks (complete 
or incomplete)  6% 6% 
Assignments (2) (100 pts ea.)  13% 26% 
Quizzes (11) (2pts ea.)  2% 22% 
Test 1 (100pts)  15% 15% 
Test 2 (100pts)  15% 15% 
Project (100pts)  16% 16% 
Total                             100%   student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, 
and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF . These may be accessed on the USF Core Syllabus Policy 
Statements page  at https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy-statements.aspx.   
 
 
COURSE POLICIES: STUDENT EXPECTATIONS  
• Attendance Policy : Attendance is expected for all classes. I will certainly accommodate excused 
absences by making arrangements with students ahead of time (when possible) or by providing 
a reaso nable amount of time to make up missed work s. 
• Course  Hero/Chegg Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may 
not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this 
purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these 
websites (including uploading proprietary mat erials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
• End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for 
students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made 
available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the 
response window opens. Your participation is expected and valued.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized.  Turnitin is an automated system 
which ins tructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard  copy and electronic 
format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that 
states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at 
this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in 
class.  
• Title IX Policy : Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which 
includes discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassm ent, and interpersonal violence. In 
an effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship v iolence or stalking. The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible 
options for resolution.  Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations 
may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about 
Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit: https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx. If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advoc acy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or va@admin.usf.edu . 
• Professionalism Policy:  Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, 
etc. must be silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be 
asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environmen t. 
Please arrive on time for all class meetings.   
 
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services: The Information Commons  provides students with individual 
and group study spaces, compute rs, printers, and various media equipment for temporary 
use.  The Information Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and 
technology and e -learning specialists. Students challenged by the rigors of academic writing, 
mathematics,  or other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the 
semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services 
provided by Learning Support Services ( http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic - resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which are provided at no cost to students.  
• Career Success Center:  Students can explore careers through activities suc h as job 
shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school 
or seeking employment, Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next 
destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice for th e interview and 
attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access these resources or 
schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa 
Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and 
graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work 
individually with you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming t o 
editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or 
to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center: The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus 
community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, 
and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact 
information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocatin g for their rights, and by offering support and resources. 
Contact information is available online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center: The Student Succe ss Center provides free tutoring and 
writing consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center: The Wellness Center provides counse ling and medical services, 
as well as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is 
available online .  
Sarasota -
Manatee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring 
and writing consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, 
Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanis h. Make an 
appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a 
confidential resource where you can t alk about incidents of discrimination and 
harassment, including sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 50 4-8599. 
For assistance leave a message with your phone number and your call will be 
returned as soon as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of 
crime, sexual assault, and partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with me? Please email me directly (from your USF email) or message me 
through Canvas.   
 
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not use non -USF emails to email me.   
2. Please do not send you assignments, projects, quizzes through email. Everything should be 
submitted through Canvas.     
How to succeed in this course?  Successful students in this class complete all learning activities 
including reviewing and taking notes fr om video lectures before taking quizzes. Successful students 
would also start working on the assignment and projects soon after they are posted, and utilize the office 
hours to reach out to the instructor if they have any questions.  
 
 
 
COURSE SCHEDULE:  
(Please Note: all dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the 
instructor .) 
 
Modules  
(Class 
Date)  Topic  Assessments  Deadlines  
0 Getting Started, Syllabus, 
Introductions and first day attendance  First day attendance 
discussion.   
1 
2/6  Introduction to Cloud Computing  Quiz 1  
  
2 
2/13 Governance and Change 
management  Quiz 2   
3 
2/20 Cloud design considerations  Quiz 3 , Begin 
discussion 1  
 Discussion 1 due 
at end of module 
4 
4 
2/27 Business metrics and use cases  Quiz 4 , Complete 
discussion 1, Begin 
assignment 1  
 Assignment 1 
due 14 days after 
assigned  (module 
6) 
5 
3/6 Architecture executive decision 
making  Quiz 5 , Begin 
discussion 2  Discussion 2 due 
at end of module 
6 
3/13 – 3/ 
19 Spring Break    
6 
3/20 Architecting for transition  Quiz 6  
  
7 
3/27  Baseline cloud architectures  Quiz 7,   
Test 1  (covers 
modules 1-6)  
8 
4/3 
 Solution reference architectures  Quiz 8 , Begin 
assignment 2  Assignment 2 
due 14 days after 
assigned  
9 
4/10 Key cloud services & Operational 
requirements  Quiz 9 , Begin final 
project   
10 
4/17  Cloud application design and 
development  Quiz 10  
  
11 
4/27 Cloud Security  Quiz 11 , Begin 
discussion 3  Discussion 3 due 
at end of class  
 12 Final Exam Week  Test 2 (covering 
modules 7 – 11), 
Final project due   
 
 