 
 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT , MAN 3025  
Syllabus  
 
      
Instructor:  Dr. Zheng  Chen   Office Hours:   Thursdays 3:30 -4:30 & 
By Appointment  
Office:  LPH427      
Office Phone:  (727) 873 -4087  Office      
Email:  zhengch en@usf.edu 
(This is the best way to  
reach  me)     
Classroom:       
 
Prerequisite  
 
Junior Standing.  
 
Course Desc ription:  
The class will examine various factors impacting the manager’s role, including intrapersonal, 
interpersonal, group and team dynamics, in addition to environmental factors (both stakeholder 
and societal) influencing the management task. This class will also acquaint students with the 
role of management as it relates to overall organizational effectiveness and how the various 
business func tions are impacted. Additionally, students will explore the various concepts and 
their application to the management role in business.  
 
Course Objective(s):   
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1) Describe and discuss the basic funct ions of management.  
2) Recognize and discuss managerial ethics and social responsibility.  
3) Describe and explain the conceptual skills of strategic planning.  
4) Explain and apply concepts of motivation in organizations.  
5) Explain and apply organizati onal communication and negotiation techniques.  
6) Discuss the use of groups and teams in organizations.  
7) Build self -awareness of values, beliefs, and managerial style  
 
Business Program Learning Goals (Skill(s) and Perspectives) Addressed in This Course:  
 
Written and 
Oral 
Communicati
on Information  
Technology 
Skills  Innovation 
and Critical  
Thinking  Ethical 
and 
Sustainabili
ty Multicultural 
Competence  
3(a) 5(b) 1(c) 2(d) 2(e) 
 
  (a) In -class discussions and group presentation.  
(b) PowerPoint presentation a nd conducting research for group project.  
(c) Term project.  
(d) Chapter  2 and article readings.  
      (e)Chapter  3 and article  readings.  
 
 
Required/Supplementary Text(s):  
 
TEXT : Management  by Hitt/Black/Porter   
Follett  Access  ebook:   3e ISBN  9780133468991    
Print lose leaf:  ISBN  9780132553353  
 
Determination of Final Grade:  
 
Quizzes  20% 
Exam 1  35% 
Exam 2  35% 
Participation   10%  
 
 
Grade Categories and Weights  (No rounding) : 
 
Final class grade cutoffs:  
A: 100% to  94%  C+: 79.99% to  76%  
A-: 93.99%  to 90%  C: 75.99% to  73%  
B+: 89.99%  to 86%  C- : 72.99% to  70%  
B: 85.99% to  83%  D+: 69.99% to  66%  
B- : 82.99%  to 80%  D: 65.99% to  60%  
F: 60% to 0%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
COURSE SCHEDULE * 
Due Dates  TOPIC  Assignment Due /notes  
1/10 Intro & Chapter 1 management   Attendance  
1/12  Extra credit activity   
1/13 Drop/Add Deadline   
1/17 Chapter 2 Ethics  Online Quiz  
1/19 Chapter 2 Ethics  F2F 
1/24  Chapter 3  International Management  Online Quiz  
1/26 Chapter 3  International Management  F2F 
1/31  Chapter 4  Strategic Management  Online  Quiz  
2/2 Chapter 4  Strategic Management  F2F 
2/7 Chapter 5 Planning  Online Quiz  
2/9 Chapter 5 Planning  F2F 
2/14  Chapter 8 Leadership  online Quiz  
2/16  Chapter 8 Leadership  F2F  
2/21  Chapter 6  Structure & Design  online Quiz  
2/23  Chapter 6  Structure & Design  F2F  
2/28  Chapter 7 HR  online  Quiz  
3/2 Chapter 7  HR F2F  
 
3/7 Reading Week  Reading Week  
3/14  Spring Break   
3/21  Exam 1  Exam 1 DUE  
3/25  Last Day to Withdraw from Course   
3/28  Chapter 9 Motivation  Online Quiz  
3/30  Chapter 9 Motivation  F2F 
4/4 Chapter 10 Teams  Online Quiz  
4/6 Chapter 10 Teams  F2F 
4/11  Chapter 11 Communication& Negotiation  Online Quiz  
4/13  Chapter 11 Communication& Negotiation  F2F 
4/18  Chapter 12 Decision Making  Online Quiz  
4/20  Chapter 12 Decision Making  F2F 
4/25  Exam 2 Re ading Week -exam free week   
5/2 Exam 2  Exam 2 DUE  
 
*subject to change  
 
Course Delivery:  A “flipped  class” format  will be used  for this course. This means that the lecture is 
delivered via video outside of class and in class we focus on application activ ities. For most 
classes, prior to coming to class, you will watch a video lecture, do some reading, and take 
a quiz on these assigned activities. In class, we will engage in other activities, such as 
hands -on experiment demonstrations, individual or small -group problem solving, or 
discussion of an assigned reading. When watching lectures outside of class, take notes as 
you normally would during a lecture. When doing your pre -class activities, make note of 
any questions you have and be sure to bring these up  in class. Note that this class format 
requires you to do substantial work in preparation for each class meeting. This work will 
help your learning.  
Course Policies and Expectations  
Successful completion of this course will require that you prepare for cla ss on a 
consistent basis. It is expected that you read all chapters in the required textbook listed 
on the course schedule.  
 
All assignments must be submitted through Canvas by each week  by due date  (11:59M, 
US Eastern Time). Due dates will be clearly post ed on each assignment. Please do not 
email your assignments. What you submit through Canvas is what will be graded, even 
if you submitted nothing at all or only a partial assignment. Please double check your 
work before submission. No late assignment will be accepted. There are no exceptions 
to this policy. Please submit early to avoid problems.  
Chapter Quizzes: You will be required to complete a quiz for each module. Each quiz 
generally consists of 5 -10 multiple choice questions. Each quiz covers all textb ook and 
module material. You will have 15 minutes to complete each quiz. The purpose of the 
quizzes is to prepare you for the exams. You will be able to see the correct answers the 
next morning @ 8 am after the quizzes are due. Each quiz covers all module and textbook 
material.  
 
Participation & Etiquette: People learn best when they are active (not passive). Your 
active participation is essential to this class. Participation is more than just attending class 
and asking an occasional question. Full participa tion consists of demonstrating that you 
are prepared for each class, asking thoughtful questions that help you and your peers 
learn, responding respectfully to peers, engaging productively in all class exercises, and 
posting comments on the learning blogs of other students.  
 
Grade Performance Criteria  
A Student frequently volunteers with answers and with questions; student contributions 
reflect he/she did the assigned reading; arrived to class on time; exhibited only positive 
participation behaviors (aski ng clarifying questions, bringing up relevant examples, 
making meaningful contributions that reflect a careful reading of the assignments)  
B Student volunteers, but not frequently; student contributions reflect he/she did the 
assigned reading; arrived to class on time; exhibited only positive participation behaviors 
(asking clarifying questions, bringing up relevant examples, making meaningful 
contributions that reflect a careful reading of the assignments)  C Student does not volunteer, but only responds when called on; student contributions 
suggest he/she did not do the assigned reading; arrived late to class, or exhibited negative 
participation behaviors such as inappropriate use of technology, off -topic talking with 
neighbors, or sleeping  
D Student doe s not volunteer and does not respond when called on, or arrived late to 
class, or exhibited negative participation behaviors such as inappropriate use of 
technology, off -topic talking with neighbors, or sleeping  
F Student did not attend class.  
Exams  
2 exa ms will be given, as indicated on the attached schedule. Exams are not 
comprehensive, and the study guides are posted on Canvas. Each exam will consist of 
50 multiple -choice questions, with a 1.5-hour limit . Please make sure you submit within 
the limit. Exams will be OPEN BOOK ONLY (i.e., no other material allowed)  and will 
be remotely proctored. Answers to the exams will not be available for viewing due to 
ensure academic integrity. You may make an appointment to go over your exam.  
 
Make -up exams cannot be  given without clear documentation of the circumstances that 
warrant missing an exam. Unfortunately, I cannot accept undocumented "internet 
problems", "computer crashes", etc. for failure to complete an exam within the allotted 
time period. Please understa nd that if you choose to use your home, work, or any other 
computer, you do so at your own risk. If you feel that your computer may be unstable, 
have a backup computer ready or, better yet, take the exam in a USF computer lab. The 
only types of computer pr oblems for which I will consider making an exception are: 
USF computer problems (which must be documented by a USF system administrator) 
or well -documented and widespread power failures in St. Petersburg (such as those 
caused by a hurricane). Requests conc erning alternative or longer exam times or 
alternative exam dates will not be granted unless you provide proper documentation 
from the University.  
 
Proctoring Exams  
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms 
and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms.   Any student 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  
  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is 
purchas ed and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any 
concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing.  The 
Unive rsity library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings 
for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space 
for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.   Students must ensure that an y 
recordings do not invade any third party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third party privacy concerns.   Setup information will be 
provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information abo ut online 
proctoring you can visit the  online proctoring student FAQ . 
 
 
 Others  
Recording of Lectures and Copyrights:  
All unauthorized rec ordings of class are prohibited. Recordings that accommodate individual 
student needs must be approved in advance and may be used for personal use during the 
semester only; redistribution is prohibited.  
 
University Assessment  
You should be aware that some of the work you complete this semester will be used for 
purposes other than calculating your final course grade. More specifically, different types of 
assessments are required for us to maintain our accreditation as a university and/or as a 
college of busi ness.  
Most of these assessments are done as part of the course and will require no additional work 
from you as a student. If you have any questions or concerns about this please let me know.  
 
CELL PHONES/PAGERS: If you bring a cell phone, pager or any othe r communication 
device to  class,  please  be sure  to turn  it off and do not use it in the classroom.  These  
devices  are not to be used during an  exam.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provi de feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Late Work  Policy : No late assignments are accepted for this course.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : There will be no extra credit assignments for this course.  
 
INCOMPLETE GRADES : An “I” grade may be given to an undergraduate student only when a small 
portion of the student’s  work (normally 30% or less) is incomplete due to circumstances beyond 
the control of the student and only when a student is otherwise earning a passing grade.  “I” 
grades are to be used only in emergency situations and cannot to be used as a means of 
avoiding a poor grade. Normally these are only for medical emergencies and require a signed 
letter from a medical professional that the student was prevented from attending class. The 
student must petition the professor before the week of final exams for a gra de of “I” to be 
given.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
Make -up exams cannot be given without clear documentation of the circumstances that 
warrant missing an exam. Unfortunately, I cannot accept undocumented "internet problems", 
"computer crashes", etc. for failur e to complete an exam within the allotted time period. Please 
understand that if you choose to use your home, work, or any other computer, you do so at your own risk. If you feel that your computer may be unstable, have a backup computer ready 
or, better y et, take the exam in a USF computer lab. The only types of computer problems for 
which I will consider making an exception are: USF computer problems (which must be 
documented by a USF system administrator) or well -documented and widespread power 
failures in St. Petersburg (such as those caused by a hurricane). Requests concerning alternative 
or longer exam times or alternative exam dates will not be granted unless you provide proper 
documentation from the University.  
 
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the 
University’s final examination policy.  
 
 
Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Email : Please send all course related emails via Canvas email. Emails will be answered 
within 24 business hours excluding weeke nds and holidays. For canvas/technology 
related issues, please contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If yo u 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT 
department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@ usf.edu . 
Online Courses may be subject to the following:  
Electronic Plagiarism Detection:  Students are hereby notified that the instructor intends 
to use electronic plagiarism detection services in this course. By registering for and 
participating in this  course, students consent to their work being sent to, analyzed by 
and stored in any plagiarism detection  service.   
Online Courses may be subject to the following : 
Electronic Plagiarism Detection: Students are hereby notified that the instructor 
intends to  use electronic plagiarism detection services in this course. By  registering 
for and participating in this course, students consent to their work being sent 
to, analyzed by and stored in any plagiarism detection service.  
Online Proctoring Syllabus Statemen t: 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online 
terms and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to  remain in the 
course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. 
Any studen t may elect to drop or withdraw from this course  before  the end of the 
drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone whe n 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person  residing in the residence. To 
avoid any  concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private 
settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an 
appropriat e space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must 
ensure that any recordings do not  invade any third party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third party privacy concerns.  Setup 
inform ation will be  provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional 
information about online proctoring you can visit the  online proctoring student FAQ 
(Links to an  external site.) . 
 
USF  ST. PETERSBURG POLIC IES 
 
HONOR SYSTEM : Under the USF Honor Syst em, each student is expected to observe complete 
honesty in all academic matters.  Violation of the Honor System will be referred to the Honor 
Council.  Note:  The following are violations of the Honor Code:  Copying another student’s 
homework, signing ano ther student’s name on the attendance roster, copying another group’s disk 
or written work, using another student’s computer disk to print out your assignment, copying 
another student’s file onto your disk, and misrepresenting a reason for a missed exam.  Punishment 
result in suspension or expulsion. See the USF SP Policy on Academic Integrity of Students  at page 
51 of the following links:  https://w ww.usfsp.edu/catalog/files/2019/03/FINAL -Catalog -2018 -
2019 -w-updates -as-of-3-2019.pdf   (for undergraduate)  
 
https://www.usfsp.edu/catalog/files/2018/08/2018 -19-Graduat e-Catalog.pdf   (for graduate)  
 
STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES : Please notify your instructor by the second class meeting if you have a 
learning disability or require special assistance with this course.  Confidential personal and 
learning assistance counselin g are made available to students through the Division of Student 
Affairs.  Contact R. Barry McDowell, St. Petersburg Campus:  Student Life Center (SLC 1203) (727) 
873-4990, ( mcdowell@usfsp.edu ) for more information.  Students who need extended time on 
exams need to inform the Disabilities Office at least seven (7) school days (Monday -Friday) in 
advance of the scheduled exam, so that the Disabilities Office has adequate time to inform me . 
 
COPYRIGHTS :  Students who wis h to audiotape lectures can do so with direct permission from the 
professor, but tapes and lectures may not be sold. No videos or photos can be taken in the 
classroom!   
 
GRADE FORGIVENESS : Undergraduate grade forgiveness is limited to three USFSP courses w ith no 
more than one repeat per course.  Accounting majors can use the forgiveness only once in upper 
level accounting courses. There is NO grade forgiveness at the Graduate Level.  
 
S/U  GRADES :  This course cannot be taken on an S/U basis.  
 
WITHDRAWAL : No “W” grades can be obtained after the official drop or withdrawal date (indicate 
date for each semester). All students enrolled as of the withdrawal date  March 2 7, 202 1, will 
receive a letter grade of A, B+, B, C, C+, C, D+, D or F.  
 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS:   In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to 
suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction 
through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas , Elluminate, Skype, and email 
messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas  
site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department 
websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information . 
 
BOMB THREAT OR OTHER DISRUPTION:  All scheduled classes will be held in an alternate room in 
the case of a bomb scare, fire alarm or other disruption. Students will gather outside of the 
classroom building at a designated area in the parking lot so that  an alternative room may be 
announced.  
 
Supporting Crime Victims and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA):  
If you are the victim of a crime, USFSP is ready to assist you in the manner that you determine is 
best for you. Please know that, as a USF employee, I am obligated by Federal law to immediately 
report any incidents of sexual assault, dating & domestic violence, and stalking relayed to me – 
including the victim’s name – to the USFSP Police Department and/or the USFSP Dean of 
Students. If you desire confid entiality, there are campus and community resources listed below 
that will respect that decision.   
 
Confidential Resources  Non -Confidential Resources  
USFSP Victim Advocacy Services  
Available: 24hrs/7days  
Tel: 727 -698-2079  USFSP Police Department  
Tel: 727 -873-4140 or  
USFSP Wellness Center (SLC 2000)  
M/T/W/F: 8am – 5pm  
Thurs: 9:30am – 5pm  
Tel: 727 -873-4422  Dean of Students & Director of Residence Life & 
Housing : Dr. Jacob Diaz  
PNM  
Tel: 727 -873-4823  
deanofstude nts@usfsp.edu   
Rape Crisis Center of Pinellas County  
Tel: 727 -530-7273  
PEMHS: 727 -541-4628  Pinellas County Sheriff  
Tel: 727 -582-6200 or 911  
 
 St. Petersburg Police Department  
Tel: 727 -893-7780 or 911  
 
If you are not sure what to do , you are strongly en couraged to contact the USFSP Victim 
Advocate to confidentially explore your options including: Injunctions & Protective Orders on 
campus; Changes in Accommodations, Living Arrangements, Class Schedules, & Transportation; 
Assistance with Academic Issues – missed classes, late assignments, etc.   
 
COVID STATEMENT  
The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campuses is our top priority. 
In response to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the USF community will be working together 
to suppor t compliance with recommended health and safety standards to optimize the learning 
experience while minimizing health risks.  The Conduct Expectations for all members of the 
community may be accessed at ( Conduct Expected to Support USF Health and Safety 
Standards ) with details provided below.  Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the sa fest possible 
non-disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic Disruption Regulation  which provides for an immediate removal or 
restriction from a classroom setting with academic sanctions a nd/or  
(2) Student Conduct Regulation  to address conduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as outlined below.  
1. Complete daily screening as requested .  Anyone experiencing one or more COV ID-
19 symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their 
residence hall room and should contact a medical provider immediately and follow their 
guidance. Please inform your instructor prior to the beginning class if your screen ing 
indicates the need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear face coverings .  All members of the USF community are required to wear face 
coverings while in classrooms or any other shared space, including specified public or 
common -use a reas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this link 
on How To Make A Face Mask.  If you have to use a disposable face m ask, please 
discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
3. Maintain social distancing . All students, faculty, staff and guests are required to 
maintain a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained in all indoor 
and outdoor spa ces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet (about 2 
arms’ length) from other people, do not gather in groups, stay out of crowded places 
and avoid mass gatherings. See the CDC for information on Social Distancing.  Please 
sit in only designated areas in class and do not move chairs or de sks in classrooms or 
common  spaces.  
4. Practice good hand hygiene .  Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water 
for at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal hand sanitizers containing at 
least 60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations a re available throughout the campus. If you 
see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations on Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect your classroom space.  Students and faculty are responsible for disi nfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each class. 
This includes desk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant supplies 
will be provided. If paper towels are used to disinfect, they must be di scarded in a trash 
receptable immediately after use.  
 UNIVERSITY LANGUAGE  
 
Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s commitment to 
the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university co mmunity. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity 
violation and related academic sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied 
to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined 
by the i ndependently accredited institution. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF System 
Regulation 3.027 https://www.usf.edu/undergrad/documents/academic -policies/1academic -
integrity -of-students.pdf . 
 
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Dis ruption of the 
academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or 
other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs 
attention away from the academic matters at hand, s uch as noisy distractions, persistent, 
disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general 
University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well -being of self or 
other persons. http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation -usf3.025.pdf  
 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate  students taking 
courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective review of 
facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a 
claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or 
status has violated published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a 
manner different from that used for other students. USF System Policy 10 -002 
 
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/policies -and-
procedures/pdfs/policy -0-004.pdf  (USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents o f sexual harassment and gender -
based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This 
confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of 
Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) https://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -rights -
responsibilities/   or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO) 
https://www.usf.edu/diversity/  , unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware 
that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes  including sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to 
me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advoc acy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974 -5757 
https://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/victim -advocacy/ . 
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reas onably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs  http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/policies -and-
procedures/pdfs/policy -10-045.pdf  (USF System Policy 10 -045). The USF System, through its 
faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising the 
USF System’s consti tuency. Students are expected to attend classes and take examinations as 
determined by the USF System. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an 
examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students sho uld 
review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as 
excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the academic 
requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the 
beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Statement of Academic Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend nor mal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Learning Management System, online conferencing, email messaging, and/or an 
alternate schedule. It is the responsibility  of the student to monitor the Learning Management 
System for each class for course -specific communication, and the main USF, College, and 
Department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information (USF 
System Policy 6 -010)  http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/policies -and-procedures/pdfs/policy -6-
010.pdf . For additional guidance on emergency protective actions and hazards that affect the 
University, please visit https://www.usf.edu/administrative -services/emergency -management/  
 
 
 
 