2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 1 of 10 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester:    Spring , 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:   Online  
Class Meeting Time:   Online  
Class Meeting Location:  Online  
Instructor:    Dr. Bhuvan UNHELKAR  
Office Location:    C225, College of Business, Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
Office Hours:     Online  
Phone :    MS Teams (   (Canvas messages  Preferred)  
Email:     bunhelkar@usf.edu   
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
 
Welcome to the Course: Advance System Analysis & Design (ASAD). This course is designed to 
equip you with the professional  skills of designing software systems beyond simply writing  good 
code and create a database . Most large -scale software development (and maintenance) work 
requires excellence in "modelling" the software - that is, create good designs and validating them 
before  writing code.  The entire course revolves around designing great software models  that 
immediately increase the quali ty and value of your software solution . Software models also 
reduce rework and improve the productivity. Modeling is a lso a great way to enhance 
communications within a software development project - especially if such project is 
"outsourced" to another de velopment shop.  
 
 
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
 
This course has no officially set pre -requisites. Students are, however, expected to have good 
understanding of software development. This course does NOT include any programming – 
however, you need to have a good i dea of ANY programming language in order to maximize the 
value to derive from this course. Appreciation of programming concepts will obviously help you 
in creating great software designs. An important soft -skill you will need, however, is ability to 
collab orate with fellow students in a Team. This is a n important prerequisite, if you like. Please 
be prepared to collaborate to design  ONLINE.  Course ISM 6124: 
Advance System Analysis & Design (ASAD)  
3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/24/2023  
 
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 2 of 10 
  
III. Course Purpose   
 
This course provides a robust grounding in the principles and practices of Object -Oriented  (OO)  software 
modelling  in order to produce great software system designs . This course uses the ISO 19505 standard for 
software modeling - the Unified Modeling Language (UML) as the modeling stand ard for designs. 
The StarUML is used as an opensource modeling tool (although you are welcome to use 
Microsoft's Visio or any other tool especially if you are already working in a software project).   
Any advanced effort at systems analysis and design is based on user requirements  and development of 
corresponding design s. Due to the fast -paced nature of this course, we will not be developing detailed 
requirements – but directly jumping to the designs from the problem statements. We do d evelop an 
approach to  Architecture of the solution and also verify  and validate designs.   
 
As part of pre -reading and developing a better understanding of the purpose of this course, please  
open the textbook for this course  Software Engineering with UML - and go through the Preface 
(Pages xxiii to xxvi) . These pages of t he text book will tell you some more on my views o f 
software modeling and why I consider this as an important course to build you up as a software 
professional.   
 
 
 
IV. How to Succeed in this Course  
 
Successful students should follow several practical tips before each online session:  
 
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements  
2. Close down other programs and apps before class begins  
3. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi  
4. Read the instruction page for the Discussion  questions, Team collaborations, and Quizzes  
5. Work in Team Projects where required in a collaborative manner. ONLINE collaboration 
requires discipline and responsibility towards the entire team . This is a CRUCIAL 
learning objective and learning experience o f this course.  
6. Submit ALL assignments (discussion questions) in time and NOT wait for any reminders  
7. Attempt ALL assignments  – please do NOT leave any assignments un -attempted even though 
you may doing very well in the ones you have already attempted. Making an honest attempt at 
all assignments and achieving a minimum score (as specified in each assignment) is absolutely 
crucial  for success in this course.  
8. For any delays in submission, please reach out to your professor promptly and explain the 
reasons (except in medical emergencies where you simply can’t reach out)  
9. Maintain high -level of honesty and ethical behavior throughout the course  
10. Maintain total respect towards your Professor / Instructor and your fellow students  
11. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
 
 
V. Student Learning Outcomes  
 
At the completion of this course, students will be able to:   
 
1. Demonstrate the knowledge of systems design with specific focus software modelling  
2. Undertake advanced designs of  high-quality software systems and applications   
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 3 of 10 
 3. Undert ake systematic modeling of requirements and solutions design using the principles of Object -
Orientation and the Unified Modeling Language (UML) standard  
4. Demonstrate the ability to use of a Software Modeling tool in a team environment in order to create 
practical OO designs with UML  
5. Recognize the importance of Architecture, Patterns, Reuse and Granularity in system designs.  
6. Demonstrate the ability to develop a Quality assurance and Testing strategy for an advanced software 
solution.  
7. Undertake team work and communicate effectively in a team environment to enable delivery of software 
solutions within given time constraints  
 
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
 
Required  (Note: This text book is made FREELY available by USF’s Textbook Adoption Program (TAP). 
Please see Canvas course for details on how to download this material for your study :  
Unhelkar , B., (2018), Software Engineering with UML, CRC Press, (Taylor and Francis Group /an 
Auerbach Book), Boca Raton, FL, USA . Foreword Scott  Ambler. ISBN 978 -1-138-29743 -2 
 
 
 
VII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
 
- Fowler, M., UML distilled:3rd Edition Addison -Wesley  
- Unhelkar , B., “The Art of Agile Practice” , (CRC Press, 2013)  
- Unhelkar , B., (2005), “Verification and Validation for Quality of UML Models”, John Wiley and Sons , 
(Wiley Interscience), July, 2005; Clothbound, Pages 290+. ISBN: 0471727830 (Foreword by Prof. Brian 
Henderson -Sellers, UTS, Sydney, Australia)  
- Unhelkar , B., (2003),  “Process Quality Assurance for UML -based Projects” Pearson Education 
(Addison -Wesley ), Boston, 2003; (394 Pages + CD. Foreword by Vicki P. Rainey, Raytheon 
Corporation, USA). ISBN 9 780201 -758214  
 
Other materials (including Youtube/Ted talk videos etc.) w ill be shared in class.  
 
 
VIII. PERFORMANCE  EVALUATION AND GRADING:  
 
Student performance is evaluated based their regularity in posting to and participating in the classroom 
Discussion questions around the weekly study topics. Performance is also evaluated through Team Project and 
quizzes.  
 
Please note that late assignment s will be accepted only with fully justified and documented reasons as per 
university guidelines.  Also, please note, late assignments will be penalized in order to maintain equitability 
with fellow students.  
 
A late submission of Assignment/quiz will not be considered valid and all points forfeited if: (a) Student has 
been reminded  once  and yet no action is taken by the student ; (b) Assignment solution has been discussed in the 
class, (c) Correct answers to the assignment / quiz have been provided to the c lass.  
 
The relative weights for each of these components in determining the final grade are as follows (please also 
note the key evaluation rubric description,  next to the percentages):  
  
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 4 of 10 
 Discussion Questions  and online participation 30% (Critical Thinking, Communication) . There are 6 
discussion questions – one in each study week of the course. These are essay style posts made by you as 
you apply your critical thinking skills in discuss ing and reflect ing on th e question provided.  What is learnt 
in the  modules AND what is explored/researched /experimented by you goes into these discussion posts.  
The discussion question s are posted at the end of the relevant module and, in some cases, derived from the 
end of the book chapter. You  read the question carefully, think, reflect, research and post an  answer. After 
posting your answer , you will be able to see the posts made by your fellow students. Once you see the 
posts from fellow students , select at least one post , read it carefully and offer a critique . This posting and 
counter -posting of discussions  is an important learning mechanism. Through participating in these 
discussion questions students are able to consolidate their knowledge , observe different  thinking a nd 
interpret ation by fellow students and how they themselves may have a unique viewpoint on the topic being 
discussed. Written c ommunications skills are further sharpened especially in an online format through this 
exercise.  
In order to encourage you to p ost early to enable a discussion to happen sooner, first couple of posts will 
get additional, bonus points.  
Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in this assessment task in order to pass 
this course. Not submitting a disc ussion post  is not acceptable in this course. Maintaining UTMOST 
courtesy towards your fellow students and your professor as you enter these discussions is also a vital 
requirement of this assignment. Please note that this is an individual assignment and e ach student is 
graded based on her/his work.  
 
 
Team Project  30% (Critical Thinking, Team Work, Communication)  – The team project forms an 
absolutely critical part of evaluation  in this course. Students are put together in a team (typically 5 
students) and provided with a case study problem statement. You apply the knowledge gained in the 
modules to the case study and  put together the deliverables in the form of a Report  and a Model of the 
System  at the end of the course. A template for the report, which is a combination of some description and 
mostly the diagrams drawn, is provided. Your report showcases your understanding of how you have 
worked through the designs in a ‘near rea l life’ case study (that is provided). Please further ensure that your 
report is  professional  looking and free from basic English errors  (like spelling mistakes  and formatting ). 
The report and the Model submi tted will be assessed TOGETHER. There is no pres entation of the work.  
Since this is an online course, it’s vital that students start collaborating with each other online as soon as 
they start the study. Reaching out to fellow students in the team and responding to their messages is integral 
to a good, collaborative online work environment. This online collaboration is a mandatory requirement of 
this course as it will require students to not only use their critical thinking skills but also learn, develop and 
apply their ability to communicate online and work in an online team environment.   
Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in this Team Project assignment in 
order to pass this course. Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Please note 
further that this is a TEAM assignment and single, common points are awarded to the ENTIRE TEAM.  
 
2 Quizzes  (Mid -term & Final) 30% (Critical Thinking)  – These two quizzes (Mid -term 15% and End -term, 
15%) are primarily multiple -choice online qui zzes which are based on the material covered in the Modules. 
Students apply critical thinking skills to the questions  resulting in validation and consolidation of their 
knowledge gained. The Mid -term and End -term quizzes are exclusive to each other – which  means the 
modules covered by the Mid -term quiz are not again required to be covered in the End -term or Final quiz. 
Quizzes are drawn from a pool of questions – therefore questions may change for each student in each 
attempt of the quiz.  Students need to n ote that it is important to score at least 40% points in this assignment 
in order to pass this course. Not appearing in the quizzes  is not acceptable in this course. Please note that 
this is an individual assignment and each student is graded based on her/ his work.  
 
Attitude, Professional Behavior 10% (Team Work, Communication) – The points awarded in this 
assessment task are dedicated to your attitude and professional behavior during the course. Working in the 
Team without friction, submitting all assessment tasks in time, ensuring total respect and courtesy towards 
fellow students and professor will all form the criteria for this assessment.  
 
Total  100%   
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 5 of 10 
  
A grade will be determined based on the total of possible points earned, as follows:  
 
A 90-100; B 80 -89; C 70 -79; D 60 -69; F 0 -59.  
 
Further granularity of the grades with + and – will be part of the final grade.  
 
 
Important Note: This course requires you to attempt ALL assessments listed above (Discussion questions, 
Team Project and Quizzes). Leaving any of these assessment items un -attempted will mean an “I” for 
Incomplete grade.  For example, sometimes, a student has excellent points in some assessment tasks and 
that he/she will proceed with  an assumption that a  “0” point score for a quiz or team project  is okay 
because overall points are good . This is not an acceptable situation in this course. All assessment items 
MUST be attempted in all honesty by the students  with a minimum of 40% points .  
Important Note#2: Late submissions WILL incur a penalty.  
 
IX. Course Schedule  
 
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to small changes as we progress through the semester.  
(Please  see the  DATES and Modules corresponding to the Weekly Activities  on CANVAS – under Schedule ) 
 
 
 
X. Standard University Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XI. Covid -19 Procedures  
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing  
during in -person classes . Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct an d Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
 
Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campuses is our top 
prior ity. In response to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the USF community will be 
working together to support compliance with recommended health and safety standards 
to optimize the learning experience while minimizing health risks.  The Conduct 
Expectations for all members of the community may be accessed at  Conduct  Expected  to 
Support  USF Health  and Safety  Standards  with details provided below:   
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 6 of 10 
 Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the safest 
possible non -disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic  Disruption  Regulation  which provides for an immediate removal or 
restriction from a classroom setting with academic sanctions and/or  
(2) Student  Conduct  Regulation  to addr ess conduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as outlined below:  
1. Complete  daily  screening  as requested.  Anyone experiencing one or more COVID -19 
symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their 
residence hall room an d should contact a medical provider immediately and follow 
their guidance. Please inform your instructor prior to the beginning class if your 
screening indicates the need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear  face  coverings.  All members  of the USF community are required to wear face 
coverings while in classrooms or any other shared space, including specified public or 
common -use areas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this 
link on  How  To Make  A Face  Mask . If you have to use a disposable face mask, please 
discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
3. Maintain  social  distancing.  All students, faculty, staff and guests are required to 
maintain a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained in all 
indoor and outdoor spaces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet 
(about 2 arms’ length) from other people, do not gather in groups, stay out of 
crowded places and avoid mass gatherings. See the CDC for information on  Social  
Distancing . Please sit in only designated areas in class and do not move chairs or 
desks in classrooms or common spaces.  
4. Practice  good  hand  hygiene.  Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water 
for at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal ha nd sanitizers containing 
at least 60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations are available throughout the campus. If 
you see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations on  Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect  your  classroom  space.  Students and faculty are responsible for disinfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each 
class. This includes desk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfecta nt 
supplies will be provided. If paper towels are used to disinfect, they must be 
discarded in a trash receptable immediately after use.  
   
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 7 of 10 
  
GRADING, EVALUATION AND ATTENDANCE POLICIES :  
 
A. Per USF policy, you receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s drop/withdraw 
date. 
B. Specifically state the value of and the manner in which each assignment in the syllabus will be evaluated or 
graded. Periodic reports on project progress are a contributing factor to the final grade.  
C. The course grade includes an assessment on how well you have demonstrated the five learning outcomes 
listed above. We will use the straight A,B,C,D and F system, point system.  
D. This course does not require any class attendance. However, periodic updates on project progress, issues 
encountered, hurdles, etc. will be communicated – and, in rare cases, a face -to-face meeting organized 
by the faculty in charge.  
E. The notes, videos, quizzes etc. provided for your study in this class is intellectual property o f the 
faculty. Students are NOT permitted to post the study material and quizzes anywhere online on the 
internet.   
 
USF System Policies  
 
Policies are available in the USF Catalog  and at regulationspolicies.usf.edu .  
 
 
A. Academic Dishonesty : The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, 
projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavio r. Please review  the USF System Regulation USF3.027 
Academic Integrity of Students  and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct . 
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  
Pleas e review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF (SM)  to sus pend 
normal operations.  During this time, USF (SM)  may opt to continue delivery of instruction through 
methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools , email 
messaging , and/or an alternate schedule. It  is the re sponsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for 
each of their class es for course specific communication, as well as  the USF (SM)  website, their student 
email  account , and MoBull  messages for important general in formation. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 
992-4231 is updated with pre -recorded information during an emergency.  See the Campus Police 
Website  for further information.  
 
D. Accessibility  Accommodation : Students ar e responsible for registering with the Office of Students 
Accessibility Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must 
be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the 
responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of 
Accommodation.  Contact Informati on: Students Accessibility Services  Coordinator, 941 -359-4714, 
disabilityservices@sar.usf.edu , http:// USF (SM) .edu/disability -services/   
   
E. Fire Alarm Instructions : At the beginning of each semester please note  the emergency exit maps 
posted in each classroom.  These signs are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and 
secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency 
Evacuation Procedures . 
 
F. Religious Observances : USF (SM)  recognizes the right of students and faculty to observe major 
religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of bein g absent from class for a major 
religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week 
of classes.  Instructors canceling class for a religious observance should have this stated in the syllabus 
with an app ropriate alternative assignment.  
  
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 8 of 10 
 G. Protection  of Students  Against Discrimination  and Harassment: 
1. Sexual Misconduct/S exual Harassment Reporting: USF (SM)  is committed to providing 
an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence 
(USF System Policy 0-004). 
2. Other  Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USF (SM)  also is committed to 
providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, 
color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, 
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 
0-007). 
 
 
H. Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail account.  
Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address.  The 
web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.  
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS : 
 
A. Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarian s, learning sup port faculty, tutors, and technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to contact 
their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic succes s, and/or regularly use the 
tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services  (http://www. USF 
(SM) .edu/academics/academic -resources/information -common s/tutoring.aspx ) which are provided at 
no cost to students.   
 
B. Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help 
develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice 
for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.  Access these resources 
or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.USF.edu/career -services . 
 
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  MAY be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which 
instructors may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
electronic format. Af ter the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report 
from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.t urnitin.com . 
Assessments are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
  
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 9 of 10 
  
XII. Learning Support : Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk 
about incidents of  discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, 
gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship violence. Call 
941-487-4254  
 
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of 
discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relati onship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to 
report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of 
Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO),  unless you request that they make a report. 
 
Please  be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators  must 
report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, 
sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/rela tionship violence. If a student d iscloses any of these situations 
in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally , he or she is  required to report it to OSSR  or DIEO  
for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment 
are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or D I E O . The Deputy Coordinator for USF (SM)  is 
Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Students Accessibility Services & Student Advocacy, 941 -359-4714 or 
adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu . 
 
Campus Resources: 
Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941-487-4254  
Victim Advocate (24/7) 941-504-8599  
 
List of off-campus resources: 
HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805  
Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota:  941-365-1976 
Centerstone:  941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059  
 
Victim Advocate  
A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance leave a 
message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon as possible. 
The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and partner 
violence.  
 
 
 
XIII. Important Dates to Remember  
 
All the dates related to the course, including and especially the assignments are posted on 
Canvas. Please to note that the schedule appearing in this document and the dates place d 
on Canvas are tentative . While every attempt is made to hold on to the initial dates 
posted, they CAN be changed at the discretion of the professor.  In terms of the overall  
 
2023 Spring _ISM 6124_ Advanced Systems Analysis & Design _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 10 of 10 
 University dates, please b e sure to get the newest dates from the Registrar: 
https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 
End of Syllabus  
 