  1 ORGANIZATIONAL  ASSESSMENT  
MAN  4282  
Summer  A 2023 
Tues.  & Thurs.  1:15pm  – 4:45pm   
BSN  124 
 
Instructor  Information  
Professor : Dr. Logan  Steele  
E-Mail:  lmsteele@usf.edu  
Office:  CIS 2069 
Office  Hours:  Tuesdays  & Thursdays  12:00pm - 1:00pm  or by appointment  
 
Course  Description  
One of the most  fundamental  activities  we engage  in as people  is solving  problems,  whether  it’s in our personal  lives  or 
as students  or as employees.  In many  ways,  we demonstrate  an extraordinary  capacity  to solve  complex  problems  –– 
creating  new  medicines,  exploring  the reaches  of space  and oceans,  building  economies  and technologies  that connect  
every  person  around  the world.  Yet, we also demonstrate  an extraordinary  ability  to make  terrible,  self-defeatin g decisi ons 
over  and over  again  –– continuing  to invest  when  we should  cut our losses,  believing  we want  more  options  when  we’re 
usually  satisfied  with  fewer,  and relying  on fads and gut feelings  when  a simple  experiment  could  show  us the truth.  How  
is it possible  that we are capable  of solving  incredibly  difficult  problems  while  also getting  stuck  on incredibly  easy  ones?  
With  this paradox  as a backdrop,  in this course,  we will explore  a set of processes  through  which  you will be able  to 
recognize  problems  in orga nizations , systematically  investigate  their  causes,  and evaluate  potential  solutions . These  
processes  all fall under  the umbrella  of organizational  assessment . To learn  how  to execute  these  processes , we will spend  
a little  bit of time  getting  familiar  with the tools  that are available  for collecting  the data  to diagnose  inefficiencies.  The 
vast majority  of our time,  however,  will be spent  applying  this knowledge  using  case  studies  and original  research  projects.  
What I hope  you will get out of this course  is this:  a skillset  that will enable  you to analyze  organizational  situations  and 
propose  and implement  appro priate  solutions  to change  an organization  for the better.  
 
Student  Learning  Outcomes  
1. Define  problems:  Distill  complex  organizational  issues  into measurable  discrepancies  
2. Analyze  problems:  
a. Develop  an appropriate  plan  for collecting  data  that will enable  an accurate  diagnosis  of a problem  
b. Design  data  collection  tools  (e.g.,  surveys,  interviews)  that will enable  an accurate  diagnosis  of a problem  
3. Test  solutions : 
a. Provide  one or more  solutions  that are based  on evidence  and sound  reasoning  and that accommodate  
situational  constraints  
b. Design  a research  study  that would  test the efficacy  of a solution(s)  
4. Evaluate  results:  draw  appropriate  inferences  from the results  of a research  study  
 
Materials  
All materials  will be provided  on Canvas.   
 
Assignments  
 
Reflection  Posts  
Engaging  actively  with  the content  of this course  will be essential  to your  learning.  The purpose  of Reflection  Posts  is to 
help  ensure  that you are consistently  prepared  to participate  in the activities  that will take  place  in class  and to successfully    2 complete  your  Organizational  Assessment  Project . If you read  first,  you'll  have  a better  understanding  of what’s being  
discussed . And,  after  having  read  and processed  the content , if there  is something  in there  that you don't  understand,  
you'll  be able  to ask about  it in the online  class  sessions .  
 
There  are six Reflection  Posts  due throughout  the semester.  There  are two components:  an original  post  (due  Tuesdays ) 
and a comment  on a peer’s post  (due  Thursdays ). Here  are the requirements  for this assignment:  
• Original  posts   
a. should  be at least  200 words ,  
b. include  discussion  of all assigned  articles/videos  for the week,  and  
c. should  always  end with  a discussion  question.   
• Comments   
a. should  be at least  75 words,  and 
b. offer  either  a new  insight  or a differing  opinion.  (Simply  stating  that you agree  or disagree  with someone  
will result  in 0 points  for this portion  of the assignment. ) 
 
The purpose  of these  Reflection  Posts  is to think  critically  about  what  you’re reading,  not to summarize  it. Below  are some  
questions  to help  spur  your  thinking  about  what  to include  in your  Reflection  Posts.  (Note:  you do not need  to respond  to 
every  question.)  
• What  are the key takeaways?  
• What  was interesting  to you,  and why?  What  did you learn?  
• Are you skeptical  about  anything  you read  or heard ? If so, why?  
• How  do your  professional  or personal  experiences  relate  to the content?  
• How  do the ideas  in these  readings  relate  to other  content  presented  in the course  or previous  courses ? 
• How  might  you apply  what  you learned  to your  current  job or future  career?   
• What  are the practical  implications  of the readings  for organizations?  
 
Grades  will be determined  based  on the following  criteria:  (1) present ing information,  arguments,  and supporting  
evidence  clearly  (50%) , (2) reader  can easily  follow  the line of reasoning  (40%) , and (3) spelling,  punctuation,  and grammar  
(10%) . 
 
Application  Activities  
Every  week,  you will complete  two Application  Activit ies that will give you the opportunity  to practice  a key concept  
described  in the readings  and/or  lecture s. This practice  will help  reinforce  what  you’re learning.  It will also better  prepare  
you for successfully  completing  the Organizational  Assessment  project.  
 
Organizational  Assessment  Project  
This course  is a very  practical  one.  As I mentioned  in the Course  Description,  we’ll only  be spending  a little  bit of our time  
learning  new  content,  while  the majority  of the course  will be dedicated  to learning  how  to apply  this content.  The way 
we’ll be doing  that is through  conducting  organizational  assessments  of our own!   
 
In the fall or spring  semesters , we work  with  business es in the local  community.  However,  because  of how  compressed  
the summer  semester  is, you have  two options:  (1) conduct  the Organizational  Assessment  project  with  a business  (which  
probably  includes  wherever  you work!),  or (2) execute  this project  based  on case  studies  I’ve written  for this course.  Both  
options  involve  writing  four,  short  papers  that align  with  our four Student  Learning  Objectives.  However,  if you choose  
option  1, you’ll receive  10%  extra  credit  on each  paper  (i.e.,  each  paper  is worth  60 points,  so that’s 6 points  per paper).  
You will select  your  preferred  option  at the end of the first week  of the semester.  
 
Final  Exam  
The purpose  of the exam  in this course  is to ensure  that you develop  a solid  foundation  of course -relevant  knowledge.  
One exam  will be given  at the end of the semester.  There  will be a combination  of multiple -choice,  short  answer,  and 
essay  questions.   
   3 Summary  of Assignments  
 
Category (% of grade)  Specific Assignment  Points  % of Grade  
Weekly Reflections ( 24%) Original Post  1 – 6 150 2.5% each  
Comment  1 – 6 90 1.5% each  
Application Activities ( 30%) Application Activity  1 – 12 300 2.5% each  
OA Project  (26%) Paper 1  – 4 240 6% each  
Final  Exam  (20%) Final Exam  200 20% 
 
Grading  
Final  grades  will be calculated  by summing  all the points  you have  accumula ted in the course . Grades  will be determined  
using  the grading  scale  shown  below.  Final grade s will not be “rounded  up.” 
 
F ≥ 599  D 600 – 699  C 700 – 799  B 800 – 899  A 900 – 1000  
 
Policies  
 
Communication  
The best  way to contact  me is through  email.  I answer  email  regularly  (and  usually  within  a couple  hours ) on weekdays.  I 
may  respond  to it less frequ ently  on weekends  and holidays;  during  those  times,  you can expect  an answer  to your  email  
within  24 hours.  There  may  be times  during  the semester  when  I do not have  access  to email.  I will be sure  to notify  you 
if such  situa tions  occur.  
To avoid  confusion  on my part,  please  follow  the following  guidelines  when  sending  emails:   
1. Use only  this email  address:  lmsteele@usf .edu    
2. Identify  yourself  as a student  in MAN  4282  –– including  the section  number  –– in either  the subject  line or the 
first paragraph  of your  email.    
3. Always  sign your  emails,  so that I know  who  sent  them .   
4. Treat  your  emails  as professional  communications  –– use proper  grammar,  punctuation,  and spelling,  and avoid  
internet  shorthand .  
I will hold  myself  to the same  standards  I expect  of you.  Emails  that I receive  that do not adhere  to the guidelines  above  
will not be answered.  
 
Attendance  
Attendance  is encouraged  but not required . If you do decide  to attend  class,  the use of computers,  tablets,  and phones  
will be prohibited  (unless  needed  to accommodate  a disability).  The research  on the use of technology  during  class  is 
unambiguous ––it’s not only  counterproductive  to your  own  learning  (Ravizza  et al., 2017 ) but also your  classmates ’ (Sana  
et al., 2013 ). We only  have  a limited  time  together  in the classroom  each  week;  I want  us to make  the most  of it by being  
focused  and fully  present.  
 
Late  Assignments  
An assignment  that is turned  in late will be penalized  10%  for every  day that it’s late.  After  one week  passed  the deadline , 
assignments  may  no longer  be submitted  for a grade.   
 
There  are three  reasons  I have  this late assignment  policy.  First,  each  assignment  during  a given  week  is intended  to be 
complementary  to one another.  Therefore,  to get the most  out of these  assignments,  it’s important  that they  are 
completed  close  in time.  Second,  this policy  helps  to ensure  everyone  is held  to the same  standard.  It is easy  to imagine  
becoming  frustrated  that your  work  turned  in on time  earns  the same  grade  as someone  else’s work  turned  in weeks  late.  
I want  to head  off issues  like those  by having  a consistent,  late assignment  policy.  Finally,  this policy  is helpful  to me as 
your  professor  as well.  Grading  all assignments  at one time  helps  me to deliver  grades  back  to you in a timely  fashion;    4 furthermore,  it ensures  that I’m grading  open -ended  assignments  (i.e.,  non-multiple -choice  questions)  in the same  way 
for all students.  
 
I recognize  that extenuating  circumstances  can emerge,  however.  If this happens,  please  let me know  immediately , and I 
will do my best  to help  you out. Communicating  with  me the moment  a problem  arises  really  helps  with  this,  so please  
prioritize  this. If you wait  until  weeks  after  the problem  has passed,  I can’t do much  for you.  So, late assignments  are only  
accepted  in extenuating  circumstances  where  documentation  (or some  other  kind  of verification)  of the circumstance  is 
provided.  
 
Academic  Integrity  
The Academic  integrity  means  honesty  and responsibility  in scholarship.  Here  are the basic  assumptions  about  academic  
work:  (1) Students  attend  university  in order  to learn  and grow,  (2) academic  assignments  exist  for the sake  of this goal,  
(3) grades  exist to show  how  fully  the goal  is attained,  (4) thus,  all work  and all grades  should  result  from  the student's  
own  effort  to learn  and grow.  Academic  work  completed  any other  way is pointless,  and grades  obtained  any other  way 
are fraudulent.   
 
Academic  integrity  means  understanding  and respecting  these  basic  truths,  without  which  no university  can exist.  
Academic  misconduct  -- "cheating"  -- is not just "against  the rules" ; it violates  the assumptions  at the heart  of all learning.  
It destroys  the mutual  trust  and respect  that should  exist  between  student  and professor.  Finally,  it is unfair  to students  
who  earn  their  grades  honestly.   
 
Academic  dishonesty  is a completely  unacceptable  mode  of conduct  and persons  involved  in academic  dishonesty  will be 
disciplined  in accordance  with  University  regulations  and procedures.   Discipline  may  include  suspension  or expulsion  from  
the University.   Academic  dishonesty  includes  but is not limited  to cheating  (e.g.,  looking  on another  person's  exam  or 
allowing  them  to look  on yours),  plagiarism,  collusion,  the submission  for credit  of any work  or materials  that  are 
attributable  in whole  or in part  to another  person  (i.e.,  copying  someone  else's  work,  allowing  someone  to do your  papers  
or take  your  exams  for you) , taking  an examination  for another  person,  any act designed  to give unfair  advantage  to a 
student  or the attempt  to commit  such  acts.  For more  information  on academic  integrity,  please  see USF’s policy  here . 
 
Honorlock  Online  Proctoring  
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  
a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  
recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  
with  the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.  
 
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  The University  library  and other  
academic  sites  at the University  offer  secure  private  settings  for recordings  and students  with  concerns  may  discuss  
location of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  their  instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any 
recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -
party  privacy  concerns.  
 
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they  take  all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high -speed  internet  
connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock  students  are 
required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF 
online  proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
Reasonable  Accommodations  for Students  with  Disabilities  
As a faculty  membe r, I am committed  to providing  reasonable  accommodations  to students  with  disabilities,  so as not to 
discriminate  on the basis  of that disabil ity. Student  responsibility  primarily  rests  with  informing  faculty  at the beginning  of 
the semester  and in providing  authorized  documentation  through  designated  administrative  channels  
(https://usf.edu/SAS ). If you,  as a student  in this course,  have  a disability  that may  prevent  you from  fully  demonstrating  
your  abilities,  contact  me personally  as soon  as possible  so we can discuss  reasonable  accommodations  necessary  to 
ensure  full participation  and facilitate  your  educational  opportunity .   5 Course  Calendar * 
 
Dates  Topic  Application  Activity  OA Project   Other  Assignment  Deadlines  
Week  1 
May  16-20 Introductions  
Using  evidence  as a manager  to solve  
problems  1. Syllabus  Quiz  
2. Ramen  Restaurant  Case   5/17:  Original  reflection  post  
5/19:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post  
5/20: Application  activit y 1 & 2 
Week  2 
May  23-27 Defining  problems  
Analyzing  problems  (part  1) 3. Evaluate  Problem  Definitions  
4. Write  Problem  Definition s 5/29: Paper  1 5/24:  Original  reflection  post  
5/26:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post  
5/27: Application  activit y 3 & 4 
Week  3 
May  30-June  3 Analyzing  problem  (part  2) 5. What’s  Wrong  with  This  Question  
6. Kohl’s  Case  6/5: Paper  2 5/31:  Original  reflection  post  
6/2:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post  
6/3: Application  activity  5 & 6 
Week  4 
June  6-10 Testing  solutions  (part  1) 7. Generating  Solutions  
8. StubHub  6/12: Paper  3 6/7: Original  reflection  post  
6/9:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post   
6/10: Application  activity  7 & 8 
Week  5 
June  13-17 Testing  solutions  (part  2) 
Evaluating  results  9. Windermere  Case  
10. GPA  and  Extracurriculars  6/19: Paper  4 6/14:  Original  reflection  post   
6/16:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post   
6/17: Application  activity  9 & 10 
Week  6 
June  20-24 Pros  and  cons  using  evidence  as a manager  11. & 12. Final  Exam  Study  Guide   6/21:  Original  reflection  post   
6/23:  Comment  on classmate’s  reflection  post   
6/24: Application  activity  11 & 12 
6/24:  Final  exam  
*The course  calendar  is subject  to change  at the instructor ’s discretion.  