 
 
 
Revision Date February 1, 2023  
 
Course Title:  Big Data for Business Applications  
Semester:   Spring  2023 
Course Prefix, Number:   ISM6562  
Credit Hours:   3 
 
 
Instructor:  Kaushik Dutta  E-Mail:  duttak@usf.edu  
TA/GA:  Varun Krishna Ramakrishnan  E-Mail:  varunkrishna@usf.edu  
Term:  Spring 202 3 Dates:  2/6-5/4/23.  
Delivery 
Method:  Face to face in class  
(2-3 classes may be online based on 
pedagogical requirements)  Location:  BSN 230  
Office Hours:  Wednesday  11 AM – 12.30 PM 
Please notify the instructor 12 hours before if you would attend the office hours  
 
University Course Description:  
The course will cover data management and data analytics for  businesses  using various big data 
technologies such as No -SQL database, distributed file system, Map -Reduce , and Spark . 
Course Description :  
With the advent of social media and IoT (internet of things), the data volume in organizations has 
increased rapidl y in recent years. With the increased in data volume to terabytes and even petabytes, 
traditional database and analytical techniques are not sufficient. In this cour se students will learn 
various b ig data technologies and how they can be used for data mana gement and data analytics 
purposes to handle such massive dataset . The first half of the course will focus on big data storage 
technologies  such as No -SQL database  and distributed file s ystem . The second half of the course will 
focus on big data computational platforms such as Hadoop map -reduce and Spark. The course will cover 
in-depth spark programming on big data platform.  
Course Objectives :  
• Identify various components of big data technologies;  
• Explain  how big Data technologies can be used;  
• Design and develop analytics applications on big data . 
• Apply the knowledge of big data technologies to design and scale analytics applications   
Learning Outcomes:  
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:  
• Design and manage large business ap plications with millions of users  
• Design analytic applications using several tens to hundreds of terabytes data  
• Develop business applications running on top of several tens to hundreds of terabytes data  
Perquisites : 
• Completion of Data Mining and Analytical Methods for Business /Statistical 
Programming /Statistical Data Mining course  
• Relational Database  
• Java or Python  Programming knowledge  
• Web application development  
• Willingness to work hard with Big data technology stack  
Instructor Contact Information and Communication  
Canvas Email is generally the best way to get in touch with me  for class -related things , and I will make 
every attempt to answer emails within 24 business hours . Please do not use @usf.edu f or class -related 
communications.  
 
Instructor: Kaushik Dutta   
Office: School of Information Systems and Management  (CIS Building)    
Office Hours: Wednesday  11 AM – 12.30 PM 
First Day Attendance Policy  
A student who is not present on the first day of the class will automatically be drop ped from the class.  
Attending the class Virtually or Physically  
Regular attendance in class is mandatory to do well in the course . There is no virtual attendance of the 
class. The class WILL NOT be streamed on any platform , and recordings  of lectures will not be available. 
2-3 classes may be delivered online . However , even on those days , the class will not be recorded 
through MS Teams. Suppose you miss 25% of the total cla ss lectures for whatever reason (family 
emergency, religious reason, medical situation). In that case,  it is very unlikely that you will be able to 
make up for that missed class. Please work with the instructor to do a late drop if it happens . 
Course Materials :  
Students do not need to purchase any software or book for this class. However, the instructor will direct 
students to various online materials, books, manuals, videos , and software to supplement the class 
lecture.   
 
Book  
1. Frank Kane's Taming Big  Data with Apache Spark and Python  - eBook freely available from the 
library  
 
 
2. Ullman – Mining of Massive Datasets - http://www.mmds.org/  
 
3. BOOK  
PySpark  Cookbook : Over 60 Recipes for Implementing Big Data Processing and Analytics Using 
Apache Spark and Python.  
Drabas, Tomasz.; Lee, Denny.  
Birmingham : Packt Publishing Ltd; 2018  
 
 
4. Big Data Analysis with Python: Combine Spark and Python to Unlock the Power of Parallel 
Computing and Machine Learning  
by Ivan Marin, Ankit Shukla, and Sarang VK  
Publisher  
Packt Publishing, Limited  
 
 
 
How to Succeed in this course  
• Access course  on regular basis  
• Read all mandatory reading materials  
• Practice the examples and assignments  
• Combine knowledge from other courses such as Data Mining, Analytical Methods for Business, 
Statistical Programming, Statistical Data Mining  
 
Grading Scale  and Bas is for Grades:  
 
The grading will be based on the following components in the class –  
 
 Cassandra Quiz  (Individual in -class)  10% 
 Assignment s (Individual @Home ) 10% 
Group  Project  (Group @Home )   25% 
 Quizzes (Individual in -class only)   15% 
Final Exam (Individual in -class only)  40% 
  
The students will be given an “Incomplete” grade only as per the university policy without any 
exception.  
 
The final  grading will be based roughly  on the  following scale –  
 
[95-100]  A/A+ 
[90-95) A- 
[85-90) B+ 
[80-85) B 
[75-80) B- 
[70-75) C+ 
[65-70) C 
[60-65) C- 
Below 60%  F 
 
Please note that this  is a tentative grading scale and can change based on the students' performance 
and the class's overall performance . However, the faculty reserves the right to change the grading scale 
as he deems appropriate based on the overall performance of the class.  
 
 
  
 
 
Course Outline and Schedule:  
 
Week  Discussion Topic  
1 Introduction to Big Data Application  
Big data Storage  
Big data computation  
2 No-SQL Database Basics and concepts  
Various No -SQL database systems  
Cassandra  
3 Cassandra, MongoDB and HBase  
4 Distributed File Systems – HDFS, Cloudera Platform  
6 Distributed Computing – Map -Reduce, Hadoop Map -Reduce, MongoDB Map -
Reduce, Hive, Kudu, Impala  
7 Data Robot Platform, Spark Platform  
8 Spark basics programming – Resilient distributed data, Databricks  
9 Data Cleaning, Data Visualization  
9 Advanced spark programming  
10 Spark SQL – Dataframe, Dataset, Spark Machine Learning Libraries  
11 Catchup class  
12 Final Exam – Spark Programming  
 
Group Project: Big data analytics project  
 
The final project will be a group project, with each group comprising of 4 members. Each group is 
expected to take a publicly available dataset, and do the analysis, visualization, and model creation on 
the dataset using Jupyter Notebook and HDFS system on  Cloudera platform or DataBricks platform.  
 
Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set 
of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
COURSE POLICIES   
Late Work Policy :  
There are no make -up opportunities for exams.  Topical assignments turned in late will be 
assessed a penalty of 20% for each for each day the assignment is late. Assignments will not 
be accepted if late by more than 5 days.  
Extra Credit Policy :  
There are no opportunities for extra credit in this course.  Students’ focus should be on the 
primary work in the course.  
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student when 1) arrangements are made prior to the end of 
the semester, 2) in the judgment of the instructo r a valid reason is offered for granting an 
Incomplete, 3) a clear path to a standard grade is agreed to by the instructor and the student 
which will result in successful completion of course requirements by the end of the succeeding 
semester.  Offer speci fics about your policy on incomplete grades. “I” grades not removed by 
the end of the next semester will be changed to “IF”.  
Email:  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students  will be  Canvas  email  
(not @usf.edu). “Blast emails” will occasionally be sent by the instructor to all students via 
Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with questions at any time.  Please 
anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
Canvas:  
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in weekly assignments and  
return graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to 
this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You 
may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
Classroom Recording:  
Audio and/or video recordings of lectures are allowable as per Florida law only for personal use. 
Such recording should not include any  audio or video of other students in the class . Such 
recordings should not be publicly available and distributable as per the Florida law.  
Academic Integrity :   
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s commitment 
to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic 
integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and 
fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavo rs and 
claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an 
academic integrity violation and related academic sanction at any USF System institution shall 
affect and be applied to the academic status of the student  throughout the USF System, 
unless otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.  
Disruption to Academic Process :  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom 
or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) 
directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, 
persistent, disr espectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or 
general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well -being of 
self or other persons.  
Student Academic Grievance Procedures :  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective review of 
facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is 
a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record 
or status has violated published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in 
a manner different from that used for other students.  
Disabi lity Access:  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes a t USF. These may be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting:  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim 
Advocacy and Violence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can talk about 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and  
domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to 
report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the 
Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless y ou request that they make 
a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, 
educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including 
sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship  violence. If you disclose any of these 
situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO 
for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 
974-5757.  
Religious Observa nces:  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices,  and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you should plan 
your allowed absences to include those dates.  However, at the  end it is student’s 
responsibility to arrange for any make -up.  
Incomplete Grade Policy:  
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when 
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or ot her circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade 
Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incom plete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters 
for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date 
grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) 
will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
Online Proctoring  
Quizzes and examinations will be conducted using onlin e proctoring tools. Keeping the audio 
and video (microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is a must. If the student 
is not willing to use these the student is asked not to register for this course. Any student may 
elect to drop or withdraw f rom this course before the end of the drop/add period. Online exams 
and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be 
required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. 
Student s understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the 
student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of 
any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, student s should  
select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the 
University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss 
location of an appropriate space for the recordings with t heir instructor or advisor. Students 
must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns. Setup information 
will be provided prior to ta king the proctored exam. For additional information about online 
proctoring,  you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at https://www.usf.edu/innovative -
education/s tudent -resources/index.aspx   
Turnitin.com  
In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment  with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, 
you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After 
the assignment is processed, as instr uctor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and 
how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process 
visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.c om the same day as in class.  
Netiquette Guidelines:  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive whe n explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
othe r general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they ar e looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:  
1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is 
about.   
2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything 
personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the ins tructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any personal issues should not 
be posted there.   
4. Posts and discussions unrelated to clas s content are prohibited. Warning will be given for such 
posting. Repeat offenders will lose the access to the online class materials and thus risk failing 
the class.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system fo r students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication :  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to 
communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that academic integrity policies 
still apply in  these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is prohibited by 
the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an examination. Students 
are expected and  required to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.  
Laptop:  
 You should have your own laptop with at least 8 GB RAM to do the word needed in the class.  
Title IX Policy:  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of  resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can re view all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:    
The USF Policy on Aca demic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
Academic Accommodations  
 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pet e campus.  
Academic Support Services  
 
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF studen ts, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
Canvas Technical Support  
 
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in  the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
 
The Center for Victim Advocacy  emp owers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center  
 
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that   
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Cent er website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. 
Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can 
be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that 
certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage 
with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does 
not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
USF Core Syllabus Pol icies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to 
review these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
Any USF policy will supersede any policy mentioned in this syllabus.  
 
 
 
 