 
 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISM 4212  
Database Administration and Design  
Syllabus Version 1. 1 
 
29 December 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 2 Version history  
 
Version  Description  
1.0 First released draft   
 3 ISM  4212 : Database Design and Administration  
Spring  2023 
 
INSTRUCTOR : SCPO H. S. H yman , PhD                      E-Mail: hhyman@usf.edu  
 Office: CIS 2006                               
  
COMMUNICATION POLICY and PREFERRED METHODS :  
I follow a standard business day, which means 0800 – 1700. If you choose to contact me through 
email, the response time will be no later than the close of the next business day. This means if you 
send me an email at 0800 on Friday, I will respond to that e mail no later than 1700 the next business 
day, Monday. Keep this in mind when timing your requests and inquiries.  
I do not stand -by on my email server 24/7 waiting for new mail to arrive in my inbox. In fact, I do 
not have email notifications turned on, I  check my email at the start of the business day for 
whatever arrived during the overnight cycle, and then again at the end of the business day for 
currency.  
MANDATORY Fall 2021  SYLLABUS STATEMENT: COVID -19 PROCEDURES  
All students must comply with univers ity policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 mitigation 
measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing during in -person 
classes.  Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Student Conduct Office,  
and possible removal from campus.  
Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
MANDATORY Fall 2021  SYLLABUS STATEMENT: CLASS RECORDING  
Some sections of this course have c lasses that may be recorded and streamed online  but are not 
guaranteed to be so . Any and all Student voice s, faces  and video s will be included in the class 
recording s. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their surroundings and 
background is maintained.  
 
TEXTBOOKS : I have listed here a few books that do a decent job explaining database design 
fundamenta ls. The “official” textbook for the class is the Gillenson book. In my 
experience, I have found there is no really good textbook for a database class.  
 In this course, I teach the fundamentals based on my own experiences designing 
and building databases. If you are new to database and this is your first 
experience with the subject and concepts, then I strongly recommend the T -SQL 
book; it may be the best book on the market for learning the basics.  
 For those of you who plan to work in this field as SQL De velopers, I highly 
recommend the Atkinson book. I use it almost every day  in my work.  
  
 Optional : Fundamentals of Database Management Systems, 2nd ed.,  
 by M ark L. Gillenson.  Wiley (2012).  
 
 Recommended : T-SQL , 3ed., Itzik  Ben-Gan, Microsoft Press (2016).   
 
  Beginning Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Programming ,  
 by Paul Atkinson a nd Robert Vieira.  Wiley (2012).   
 
 Database Systems Design, Im plementation, and Management, 
13th ed., by Coronel, Morris, Rob . Cengage (2019).  
 
 Database Concepts, 7th ed., Kroenke, Auer. Pearson (2015).   
 4    EQUIPMENT : Required: You must have access to  a Windows based computer . If you do not , 
you will not be able to complete all the required assignments for this course.  
 It helps to have a laptop so that you can follow along with in -class 
demonstrations, but it is not required that you do so.   
 
DESCRIPTION : From Course Catalog: “This course is an introduction to the concepts and 
principles of database management. It is intended to provide po tential designers, 
users, and managers of data -base systems with an understanding of physical vs. 
logical representations, data modeling, implementation, and data management. 
Database skills are developed through both individual and team projects.”  
“In thi s course, students will be introduced to the design, construction, and use of 
relational databases. The content of the course has been selected to provide 
students with the knowledge and analytical skills in this subject that are needed 
to successfully ent er professional management information systems careers.”  
 
PREREQUISITE : ISM 3113 Systems Analysis and Design  (with a grade of “C” or better)  
 
OUTCOMES : Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
• recognize the role of data management in the modern business organization  
• demonstrate modeling skills used to identify organizational data structures  
• describe the fundamental principles of relational database technology  
• employ Structured Query Language to manipulate data in re lational databases  
• apply database technology to typical Business Analytics needs of organizations  
• identify the primary organizational responsibilities of database professionals  
• summarize the major issues affecting database design and use in environme nts 
   involving client/server databases, distributed databases, and data warehouses  
 
REQUIREMENTS :  Database Assignments  
 Software Installation Assignment s 
 Database Projects  
 
GRADING :  
 
WARNING: There is NO extra credit. There is NO rounding. What you get is what you get. 
You have all the assignments before you. There is no additional work available to you if you 
fail to complete the actual assignments in the syllabus.  
 
 
Graded Assignments : Letter Grades:  
Average of Database Assignments   A >= 90.0 with no rounding  
Final Assessment: Database Project          B >= 80.0 
Software Install Assignments     C >= 70.0 
Exam  D >= 60.0 
 F   < 60.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 5 Grade Curve Expectation : History has shown that the following grade curve has been consistently 
stable over the past 3 years. Some semesters it is higher, on rare occasion it has been slightly  lower.  
 
Level of Mastery  Percentage Achieved  Number out of population of 40  
90% or b etter – As 35% 13 
80% or better – Bs  65% 26 
70% or better – Cs  80% 33 
Failed to reach 70% - Ds and Fs  20% 8 
 
Assessment/Feedback on your performance : This section is explained here so that everyone 
knows where they stand in the class at any given time . Your letter grade is direct feedback to you of 
how well you can create a design, build a database from that design and execute select statements to 
produce result sets.  
• ‘A’ level work means that you can correctly create a documented design (diagrams and 
notation) and correctly build tables with constraints  and create select statements and 
programmable objects that produce correct result sets based on a narrative provided – there 
may be minor flaws that will not impact performance significantly.  
• ‘B’ level work means you can create documentation  and build tables , and have some 
significant flaws that may impact performance of the database.  
• ‘C’ level work m eans you r documented design and build has major flaws that will 
cause the database to fail.  
• Below ‘C’ level means you have not demonstrated a minimum amount of 
competence for creating a database design and build or that you cannot create select 
statements that can execute without error, or fail to produce correct result sets .  
 
RUBRIC : Here is a more specific breakdown of how your database assignments are evaluated by 
percentage:  
1. Narrative documents meet formatting requirements as listed below and continuing onto the 
next page ( 7): 20%.  
2. ERD, EERD diagrams are not missing tables, have correct notation: 20%.  
3. ERD, EERD diagrams have correct cardinality and optionality: 10 -15%. 
4. RS has correct tables, arrows, and notation: 20%.  
5. RS matches EERD: 10%.  
6. DD has correct tables, notation, data types, and constraints: 20%.  
7. DD matches RS: 10%.  
8. Database diagram has correct tables and referential integrity; PKs and FKs correct: 20%.  
9. Database  has co rrect tables, referential integrity  and matches DD documentation : 30%.  
10. Database has correct constraints: 20%.  
11. Select statements execute with no errors: 20%.  
12. Select statements produce result sets: 20%.  
13. Result sets produced are correct: 10 -15%. 
14. SSDT reports  include query builder: 20%.  
15. SSDT reports produce correct result sets: 20%.  
16. SSDT reports are formatting with proper columns, fonts and spacing: 10-15%.  
 
 
 
 
  
 6 Formatting Requirements :  
 
• Please fol low the se formatting rules for any written work. The reason for these formatting rules is so that 
everyone knows the standard for which their work will be judged. This also provides a fair and equal means 
for comparing the work between individuals . This puts everyone on the same footing. These are the rules 
and requirements that control your submissions : 
a. Document s ubmissions must be typed, using Times New Roman, 12 -point font, with double space.  
b. Every individual written assignment should have a cove r page containing your name, assignment 
title, date and course name. NO OTHER items should be on your cover page.  This maintains the 
identity of your work when collected into one giant stack.  
c. Your work must be well orga nized, using headers and titles to d ivide paragraphs and sections for 
clarity . You may consider the use of a  variety of fonts and colors ( when appropriate ) for 
presentation.  
d. You must use complete sentences. Use of bullets only when appropriate for content  lists.  
e. I should not be the first se t of eyes on your paper: Typos and grammatical errors will count against 
you. I use the automated system TurnItIn to check for plagiarism, cut and pasting, grammar and 
spelling.  
f. Formatting is important. Your work may be 100% correct, but if presented in th e wrong format, or 
difficult for the reviewer to read, it might receive negative feedback, up to and including, rejection for 
failure to follow directions.  
g. Any screen captures or figures must be centered, have a border framing the content, and be 
accompan ied by a 2 – 3 sentence descriptive narrative below what is depicted. Above all, it must be 
readable,  or it will not receive credit.   
h. Your work must be thoughtful and demonstrate thorough thinking through of the  problem as well as 
your proposed method for solving  it.  
i. Your work must be original.   
j. Your work must be accompanied by a list of the sources  for your information . APA is standard, but 
any style is accepted as long as it is consistent.  
k. Your work must be easy to re ad (readability).  
l. I should not have to hunt for your work; if I cannot find your work within the submission, you will 
not receive credit. I cannot grade what I cannot see.   
m. Your work must be clear and to the point. I do not require a minimum amount of con tent, but you 
must include enough content to demonstrate to me that you have put satisfactory thought and effort 
into your work.  
n. If your submission does not meet the requirements of the assignment or fails to follow directions, it is 
eligible to be awarded  zero credit. Multiple submissions are not accepted.  
o. I reserve the right to reject ANY assignment  submission  that I believe does not meet any requirement 
in this list, is not your own work, or fails to meet the standards for competent, university  level wo rk.  
p. Late work  receives a zero grade until submitted. Any late submission will receive a 20% penalty per 
day until submitted. A day is defined as a 24 -hour cycle commencing from the deadline. This means 
that after 5 consecutive days past a deadline, the ma ximum awarded for a late assignment is zero. 
Eastern Time Zone is controlling.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 7 COURSE AND CLASSROOM CONDUCT :  
 
Academic integrity is an absolute course requirement. (See link to USF Academic Integrity policy 
below.)  Any instance of academic dishonesty will result, at the least , in a grade of zero being 
assigned to the work involved.  This policy covers both the Exams and all Assignments. It is 
considered cheating to either give or receive  assistance of any kind on these assignments.  It is your 
respons ibility to ensure that yo ur work does not become available to other students.  
 
 
UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
 
In addition to the specific course policies listed above, information on the following university 
standard course policies can be found at the web address shown for each item:  
 
Final Examinations – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf  
General Attendance – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAttendance.pdf  
Religious Days – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
Academic Integrity – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/Aca demicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf  
Academic Disruption – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
Academic Grievance – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
Students with Disabilities – 
http://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/documents/sds -staff-handbook.pdf  
 
This is the plann ed list of items that will be covered . I may revise it if needed :  
 
Week 1:  
1. What is a database?   
2. Elements of a relational database  system : Tables, Columns, Constraints, Programmable Objects  
3. CRUD: Create statements , Alter Statements, Select statements; Insert and Update statements , delete  
4. Introduction to SQL Express, SSMS, SQLCMD  
5. DDL, DML, T -SQL, PL/SQ L, MDF and LDF  
Week 2:  
6. Data modeling: Conceptual ERD  and EERD , Logical RS, Physical DD  
7. ERDs, EERDs, Entities, Attributes, Relationships, Cardinality, Optionality  
8. Data Dependencies , mandatory versus allow nulls  
9. Associate  Entities , Junction , Bridge, Join Tables  
10. Dependent  Entities  and Entities with Multi -Value  Attributes  
Week 3:  
11. RS: Relational Schema, Functional Dependency, Referential (Integrity) Dependency  
12. Keys: Natural, Surrogate, Primary, Foreign, Unique, Candidate, Alternate  
13. Normal Forms , Normalization, Multi -valued attribute, Partial and Transitive Dependency  
Week 4: Catch up Week  
14. Review first 3 weeks  
15. Exam One  
Week 5: Hospital Database  
16. DD: Data Dictionary  
17. Constraints: Checks, Defaults . 
18. Referential Integrity, PK -FK constraints , Cascade and No Action  
19. Creating Tables, Columns, Identity, Calc column, default value s, allow nulls  
 
  
 8 Week 6: 
20. Insert Statements  
21. Select Statements (select, from, where, order by)  
22. Join Keyword for m ultiple table selects : Inner, Outer (left/right), Full, Cross, Self  
23. SPROCs (stored procedures) and Views  (virtual tables)  
24. @Parameters for SPROCs  
25. Deleting Rows, Tables, Drop  Keyword  
26. Update Statements  
Week 7: 
27. Bulk Inserts  
28. Indexes, Composite, Filtered  
29. Index ing a View , with schemabinding  
30. Setting  Column as Unique Key  
31. Execution Plans , covered and covering queries  
Week 8:  
32. Aggregators (count, sum, min, max, avg), Group By clause  
33. Advanced Operators and Keywords  
34. Where versus Having  
Week 9: 
35. Reporting, Using SS DT for generating reports from queries  
36. Triggers (for, instead of)  
37. History Tables (deletes and updates)  
38. Adding history tables to Join queries to capture deleted events  
Week 10: Soccer Database  Build and Database Theory Week  
39. DBDD – Database design document  
40. Database build: tables, constraints, indexed, triggers  
41. Database General Concepts: ACID, CAP  
Week 11: Soccer Database Queries  
42. ETL, Bulk Records entered , SSDT reports generated  
43. With keyword and CTE  
44. Nested Queries, Correlated and Uncorrelated  
 
Week 1 2: Smallville Database  Design and Intro to Subtype Entities  
45. Working with Sub -type entities and tables  
Week 13: Smallville Database Build, Insert and Selects  
46. Self-Join 
 
Week 14: HDAR databas e design and build  
47. HDAR Database design (ERD, EERD, RS, DD)  
48. HDAR build, insert, and selects  
49. Cube and Rollup  
50. Truncate  
51. Interview Questions  
Week 15: Final Database Design Project  Test Free Week  
52. Your database design (narrative, ERD, EERD, RS)  
Week 16: Final Database Build Finals Week  
53. Your database build, insert and selects  
54. Creating dynamic filtered dashboards using Tableau  