Spring 2023          1  
 
 
 
MAN6055.350S23  
Organizational Behavior and Leadership  
23241 , 350, 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Days: None  
Class Meeting Time: None (a -synchronous class)  
 
Instructor:  K. Doreen MacAulay, PhD  
Office Location:  BSN 3543  
Office Hours:  Friday 10:00am to 1:00pm  
Email:  macaulay1@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome  to Organizational Behavior and Leadership. This course will introduce you to 
concepts found  in the organizational behavior literature that will help you as you progress in 
your career. This course will help you to take the academic concepts and apply them to day-
to-day situations. The course will be taught from the perspective that you are or will som eday 
be a leader in an organization. 
 
II. University Course Description  
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study  of goals and 
means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general (USF 
Graduate Catalog) 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course.  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
This course will serve as a survey of topics required to help you be a successful employee, manager, and 
colleague in the workplace. The purpose is to introduce you to and have you examine a series of 
organizational behavior concepts beneficial to function ing in any type of organization.  
 
This course will cover the following topics: attitudes, culture, cognitions/decision -making, conflict 
management, ethics, leadership, motivation, power and influence, stress, teamwork, and traits.  
 
 
 
 
2 V. Course Format  
This course will be 100% online and asynchronous. It is designed for you to work at your own pace, yet 
allows you the opportunity to engage with me and your colleagues.  
 
Successful students should follow these practical tips:  
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements  
2. Work off of the Module page to see the expectations for each week.  
3. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on Wi -Fi 
4. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
1. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of 
organizational behavior (OB) and leadership . 
2. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of OB and leadership in new 
situations . 
3. Analyze issues of OB and leadership using appropriate methods . 
4. Create and evaluate solutions based on scientific knowledge and evidence . 
 
VII. Course Objectives  
1. Remember and understand major theories, concepts, and principles related to the 
covered topics . 
2. Understand the importance of and connections among the covered topics . 
3. Analyze issues related to the covered topics within theoretical frameworks . 
4. Create and eva luate solutions (e.g., in case analyses and exercises) based on theories, 
principles, and research evidence.  
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Organizational Behavior,  University  of Minnesota  Libraries  Publishing  , ISBN 13: 
9781946135155, Open -sourced: 
https://open.umn.edu/opentextbooks/textbooks/organizational -behavior  
 
• Lippitt, M.B (2014). Brill iant or Blunder: 6 ways leaders navigate uncertainty, 
opportunity and complexity.  
 
• One Leadership Book from the Leadership Book List (See canvas) provided under the 
Leadership Book Presentation Information.  
 
• Articles Available through Canvas.  
 
IX. Academic Continuity  
Should we experience any events such as a hurricane that would interrupt the course, please watch for 
an email from me. I will email you and make an announcement about any deadline changes or course 
modification due to unforeseen events.   
 
3 X. Commun ication  
If you would like to communicate with me, please email me at macaulay1@usf.edu . This is the means by 
which  you are most likely to get my attention. Please also watch for emails (sent through canvas) to you. 
I will send out weekly emails about what the week expectations are. The will be titled “Module X - 
Weekly Reminders”.  
 
XI. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
94 – 100 A 74 – 76 C 
90 – 93 A- 70 – 73  C- 
87 – 89 B+ 67 – 69 D+ 
84 – 86 B 64 – 66 D 
80 – 83 B- 60 – 63 D- 
77 – 79 C+ 0 – 59 F 
 
XII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Requirement  # @ Value per Each  Total Point Value  
Syllabus Quiz  1 @ 1 points each  1 points  
Lecture Quizzes   12 @ 2 points each  24 points  
Reading Quizzes  10 @ 3 points each  30 points  
Discussion/Assignment Posts  5 @ 3 points each  15 points  
Leadership Concept Presentation  1 @ 10 points each  10 points  
Leadership Book Presentation  1 @ 20 points each  20 points  
 Total Point Value  100 points  
 
 
XIII. Assignment Details  
Each assignment is described in detail on the canvas modules page. Please see the module the project is 
due for the information, except for the Leadership Book Presentation. Since it is the largest project, it is 
introduced in Module 1.  
 
XIV. Instructor Feedba ck Policy & Grade Dissemination  
Include a plan for classroom response time and feedback on assignments. Explain how students will 
learn of their grades from assignments and assessments, and when they can expect feedback on their 
assignments.  
   
 
4  
XV. Course Schedule . 
Module  Topics  Deliverable  Due Date  
0/1 Getting Started / 
Introduction  to 
Organizational  Behavior  Syllabus Quiz  
 
 
Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  Friday  
Jan 13  @ noon  
 
Sunday  
Jan 15  @ 11:59pm  
2 Attitudes,  Job Satisfaction,  
Emotions  and Moods  Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
Jan 22  @ 11:59pm  
3 What  goes  into Decision  
Making?  Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  Sunday  
Jan 2 9 @ 11:59pm  
4  Motivation  Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board   Sunday  
Jan 29  @ 11:59pm  
5 Leadership: Introduction, 
History and Situational 
Mindsets (Inventing, 
Catalyzing, and Developing )  
3 Lecture Quiz zes  
Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
Feb 5  @ 11:59pm  
6 Leadership: Performing, 
Protecting and Challenging 
Mindsets  Lecture Quiz  
 Sunday  
Feb 5  @ 11:59pm  
7 Leadership: Select Current 
Topics in Leadership  Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  
Leadership Concept 
Presentation  Sunday  
Feb 12 @ 11:59pm  
8 Power and Communication   Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  Sunday  
Feb 1 9 @ 11:59pm  
9 Organization  Structure,   
Control  and Culture   Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz   Sunday  
Feb 19  @ 11:59pm  
10 HR, Organizational Change 
and Stress Management  Lecture Quiz  
Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board   Sunday  
Feb 26  @ 11:59pm  
11 Culture  and Diversity   Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
Feb 26  @ 11:59pm  
12 Final  Presentation   
Final Presentation  
 Sunday   
Mar 5 @ 11:59pm  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision   
 
5 XVI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to revie w 
these online : usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx     
 
XVII. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work Policy :  
I believe that you should be able to work with the deadlines but understand that unexpected things may 
come up in your life. If you are unable to make a deadline, please inform me by email 
macaulay1@usf.edu . There w ill be no late penalty for work if I am informed. Work must however, all be 
completed by March 5th.  Any work no completed at that time will be given a zero (unless other 
arrangements have been made).  
 
Medical Issues :  
Students should not attend  events or  class es if they are ill, particularly if they have fever and/or 
gastrointestinal symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as a sneezing, runny nose, sore throat or 
coughing.  Students experiencing any of these symptoms should  contact  immediatel y the  Student Health 
Services (813 -974-2331) on the Sarasota -Mantatee and Tampa campus or the Wellness Center (727 -873-
4422) .  
 
Extra Credit Policy :  
There are not extra credit opportunities offered in this course.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion 
only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract 
Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn 
factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses and  one 
semester  for graduate courses  from the original date grades were due for that course.  An "I" grade not 
cleared within the  two semesters for under graduate courses and one semester for graduate courses 
(including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Attendance Policy:   
Attendance will not be taken in this course, EXCEPT for the first week. You are required to complete the 
syllabus quiz to record your attendance and affirm that you do intend to take this course.  
 
Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent 
ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these 
principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even 
offensive.  
  
 
6 In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can be 
tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain 
ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with 
complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean 
that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Make -up Exam s Policy : 
There are not make -up tests or quizzes.  
 
Rewrite Policy :  
Rewrites are not offered in this course.  
 
XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas h elp guides. You may also contact USF's 
IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Health and Wellness :  
Your health is a priority at the University of South Florida. We encourage members of our community to 
look out for each another and to reach out for help if someone is in need. If you or someone you know is 
in distress, please make a referral at www.usf.edu/sos  so that the Student Outreach & Support can 
contact and provide helpful resources to the student in distress. A 24 -hour licensed mental healthcare 
professional, offered through the counseling center, is availabl e by phone at 813 -974-2831, option 3. 
Please remember that asking for help is a sign of strength. In case of emergency, please dial 9 -1-1. 
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based 
on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal 
access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required 
to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The 
Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX 
report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. 
For information about Title IX or for a full list of  resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential 
resource that can re view all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, 
such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. Thi s does apply specifically to Chegg.com  
 
7 and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese website s (including uploading proprietary materials) 
constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF ma ke use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participat ion is highly 
encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors may  use to 
quickly and easily compare each student's assignment  with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous 
database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit 
all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instr uctor 
I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at 
turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’ s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, polit ical and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to  easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you c an visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support services 
available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website .  
 
8  
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources 
in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepa ge of your Canvas course. You can also contact the help desk 
by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the 
restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resources. 
Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promo tes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally 
sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and 
personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete c ampus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF unde rgraduate and graduate students. At the Writing 
Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any point in the writing process 
from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information or  to make an appointment, email: writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXI. Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 