 
I.Welcome! First and foremost, I hope you are all keeping healthy and safe in these challenging 8mes. Beyond that, I want to welcome you to MAN 3025 and tell you how happy I am to share some 8me with you this semester.   Keeping up with course assignments will be a challenge, but, hopefully, well worth it as you gain informa8on to make you a beEer manager in the workplace. I know, for some of you, that this will be your ﬁrst online course.  Don’t feel alone: it’s a  rela8vely new teaching experience for me as well!    However, you won’t have to worry about driving to class in traﬃc, ﬁnding a parking place and—if you don’t feel like going to class at a speciﬁc 8me—having to be there.   BoEom line: I’m looking forward to taking advantage of this online learning op8on and ask you to join me in this exci8ng journey.  And, best of all, you can do it on your 8me, in your favorite space, snacking on your favorite food.  Bon Voyage! Instructor:Marvin KarlinsE-Mail:MKarlins@usf.eduTerm:Spring 2023Dates:Jan. 9-May 4Delivery Method:Online, Oﬀ-campusLoca>on:Oﬀ Campus / OnlineMinimum  Technical Skills & Requirements: In order to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate proﬁciency at basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system requirements listed here:  hEp://www.usf.edu/innova8ve-educa8on/resources/student-services/technical-requirements.aspxVirtual Oﬃce Hours: Virtual oﬃce hours to be posted.  Be sure to read course announcements for details.  Addi8onal hours are available by appointment  
         1
MAN 3025:  Principles of Management MAN 3025, 3 Credit Hours MUMA College of Business, School of Informa8on Systems and Management COURSE SYLLABUS II.University Course DescripJon Examines intrapersonal, interpersonal, group/team, organiza8onal, and environmental (both stakeholder and societal) factors inﬂuencing the management task. III.Course Prerequisites There are no prerequisites for this course IV.Course Purpose  This course will provide you with the founda8ons for understanding the role of management in an organiza8on.  This course will cover general areas such as planning, organizing, inﬂuencing, and controlling that are relevant for any industry.  We will also review issues of management such as ethics, diversity, and social responsibility.  V.Instructor Contact InformaJon and CommunicaJon  I am very informal.  You may call me by my ﬁrst name if you prefer; or, if you feel more comfortable using 8tles, then feel free to call me “Professor Karlins.” I am ﬁne either way.  I have already provided you with my oﬃce hours and my email address.  Please feel free to contact me! That’s what I’m here for.  Please understand I enjoy talking with students, and even though this is not a face-to-face class, it shouldn’t limit our opportunity to interact (only the way we do it).  Also, be sure to check your email and canvas regularly (at least 3 8mes a week) for any course updates.  I will be making regular announcements that I hope you will ﬁnd helpful. VI.First Week APendance Policy University policy requires that we ascertain if students signed up for the course are actually taking it.  In a face-to-face class this is done by a roll call on the ﬁrst day of class.  Online is a bit diﬀerent.  In this course you will establish your aEendance by par8cipa8ng in an introductory discussion board, which can be found in the Gelng Started Module in Canvas.  Students who don’t complete this ac8vity by the due date will be dropped from the course. Be sure to complete the ﬁrst part of the discussion board by Thursday night of week 1 so you won’t be dropped from the course.  VII.How to Succeed in this Course Generally, the majority of students in my class get a grade of “B” or beEer.  As in most things in life: the more work you put into this course, the beEer your grade will be. It is cri8cal that you keep up with your assigned readings and assignments. Please contact me immediately if you have any problems or concerns.  Falling behind in online courses is one of the biggest stumbling blocks students face, par8cularly if they haven’t taken such courses in the past.  Make sure you don’t fall into this trap! 2VIII.Course Structure  The course will be a learning experience designed around your textbook, reading assignments, short wri8ng assignments, and a paper.  Because the course is asynchronous, it will be up to each student to do coursework on their own schedule, remembering, of course, that everyone will s8ll be expected to meet various course deadlines as stated in the syllabus, various course assignments, and/or canvas announcements. IX.Student Learning Outcomes  Upon comple8on of this course, students should be able to: •Understand the basic theories, concepts, and eﬀec8ve behavioral prac8ces that form the founda8on of modern management thought •Explore how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, iden8ty, culture rules, and biases in rela8on to how they inﬂuence management of a workplace. (Self-awareness) •Iden8fy and describe major global issues that impact businesses and management of those businesses. (Major global issues) •Demonstrate the ability to apply key management concepts   X.Required Course Materials  You will be required to obtain the following textbook for the course: (1)Bateman, Thomas and Robert Konopaske.  M: Management  (7th ed.)  New York: Sage, McGraw Hill, 2022.    Make sure it is the 7th edi8on of the book.  This book will be available in the USF bookstore or on sale online.   McGraw Hill has an interac8ve eBook for $45 to rent as well.   (2)Karlins, Marvin. Life Management 2.0: How to Have the Time of Your Life (2nd ed.) Iowa: Kendall Hunt, 2022 2021.  You can choose to order (1) directly from the publisher: To do this go to your browser and type in hEps://he.kendallhunt.com/Karlins.  You can order the EBOOK (ISBN) 978-1-7924-7320-3 or the PRINT edi8on (ISBN) 978-1-7924-7321-0.  The price of the digital ebook is $16.00.  The cost of the hard copy is $17.95. (2) You can purchase the book at the University bookstore.  (3) You can purchase the book on Amazon.  PLEASE NOTE:  I do NOT receive any royal8es for books sold to my students!!! XI.Supplementary (OpJonal) Texts and Materials  Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.   XII.Grading Scale  Grading Scale (%)3XIII.Grade Categories and Weights Here are the various point totals for the classroom ac8vi8es you will be undertaking.  There are 1,000 possible points in the course (not coun8ng the extra credit project).  Each project you undertake will specify the speciﬁc points it is worth. 
There will be four mul8ple-choice examina8ons during the semester.  Each test will be 50 items in length, with each ques8on coun8ng as three points.  Thus, each exam will be worth 150 points.  All exams will be one hour in length and “open book” (you can refer to your notes and texts during the exam).  Once you start the test you cannot pause it; you will have one hour from the 8me you begin the test to complete it.  This is an individual exercise and students should not share informa8on about the test either while it is being taken or ater it is completed.  The tests will NOT be cumula8ve—text chapters covered on one test will not be examined on other tests.  Ques8ons will cover chapters assigned in the text.  For the three tests, approximately 75% of the ques8ons will come from the Bateman text; the other 25% from the Karlins text. Add this new paragraph immediately under XIII:  "The small wri8ng assignments (see below) will be graded on a pass/fail basis, except for a small number of submissions that do not meet the requirements to "pass" but are not bad enough to jus8fy a "fail" grade.  Those papers will 90-100A80 - 89B70 - 79C60 - 69D0 - 59F
AssessmentPercent of Final GradeSmall Wri8ng Assignments (6 reﬂec8ons and 2 discussion boards)200 points (20%) Final Paper (Global Ci8zens Assignment)200 points (20%)Exams600 points (60%)Extra Credit Can add up to 30 points to your ﬁnal grade (3%)
4receive a 10 point deduc8on from the assigned paper total possible points.  The ﬁnal paper will NOT be graded on a pass/fail basis (you will receive a score somewhere between 0 and 200). More informa8on on each of these assignments, including the ﬁnal paper, can be found in the Modules sec8on of your course shell in Canvas NOTE: should you have any issues with a grade you received on ANY course assignment or test, please speak about it with your "designated graduate assistant" to resolve the maEer.  If the problem cannot be resolved sa8sfactorily between the two of you, then feel free to contact me about the issue.  Your "designated graduate assistant" will be named in an announcement during the ﬁrst two weeks of class. XIV.Course Schedule DateReading and Video AssignmentsAssignments DueWeek 1: 1/9-1/15Read Chapter 1 in both textbooksPost in the First Day Attendance Discussion Board by Thursday night and Reply to 3 of your peers by SundayWeek 2: 1/16-1/22Read Chapter 2 in both textbooks; Read the TED essay on management and watch at least one of the relevant talksTED reflection 1Week 3: 1/23-1/29Read Chapter 3 in both textbooksNoneWeek 4: 1/30-2/5Read Chapter 4 in both textbooksTake Exam 1 by Sunday night at 11:59PMWeek 5: 2/6-2/12Read Chapter 5 in both textbooks, watch the assigned TED talkTED Reflection 2Week 6: 2/13-2/19Read Chapter 6 in both textbooksNoneWeek 7: 2/20-2/26Read Chapter 7 in both textbooks Action Item Exercise Reflection 1 Due by Sunday night at 11:59PM5* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision XV.USF Standard University Policies  Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic con8nuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: hEps://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx  Week 8: 2/27-3/5Read Chapter 8 in both textbooks Take Exam 2 by Sunday night at 11:59PMWeek 9: 3/6-3/12Read Chapter 9 in both textbooks, watch the assigned TED talksTED reflection 3Week 10: 3/13-3/19 (Spring Break)N/AN/AWeek 11: 3/20-3/26Read Chapter 10 in both textbooks; Review the assignment sheet for the final paperPost in the Leadership Discussion Board and reply to 3 of your peers by Sunday night at 11:59PM Week 12: 3/27-4/2Read Chapter 11 in both textbooksAction Item Exercise Reflection 2 Due by Sunday NightWeek 13: 4/3-4/9Read Chapter 12 in both textbooksTake Exam 3 by Sunday Night at 11:59PMWeek 14: 4/10-4/16NoneSubmit the final paper by Sunday night at 11:59PM Week 15: 4/17-4/23Read Chapter 13 and 14 in both textbooksSubmit Action Item Exercise Reflection 3 by Sunday Night at 11:59 Week 16: 4/24-4/30Read Chapters 15 in both textbooks, as well as Chapter 16 in the Karlins textbook. Submit the extra credit assignment (optional) by Sunday night at 11:59PMWeek 17: 5/1-5/4Take exam 4 by Thursday night at 11:59PM
6XVI.Course Policies: Grades  Late Work Policy: Unless you have a valid reason (documented medical issue, death in immediate family, religious holiday), all graded work (and the extra credit project) not turned in on 8me will receive a grade of “0.” Thus, please be mindful of when your various tests and assignments are due. Grades of "Incomplete":  The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small por8on of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The 8me limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this 8me limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or gradua8on, whichever comes ﬁrst.  XVII.Course Policies: Student ExpectaJons Course Hero Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity speciﬁes that students may not use websites that enable chea8ng, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This applies to websites such as CourseHero.com – any use of these website (including uploading materials) cons8tutes a viola8on of the academic integrity policy.  Sharing of any online materials provided by your instructor on Canvas: Much of the online material for the course is based on the published (or to-be-published) works of Professor Karlins, and are his intellectual property.  No part of the lectures (including the duplica8on of power point slides) may be given or sold to anyone (including websites that purchase such materials) or used outside of this course in any way without his wriEen permission.  Any student caught viola8ng this policy will receive a “double F” in the class.  Thank you for your coopera8on in this maEer. End of Semester Student EvaluaJons: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will no8fy you by email when the response window opens. Your par8cipa8on is highly encouraged and valued.  NeJquePe Guidelines:  1.Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be construc8ve when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   72.Be sensi8ve. Be respeczul and sensi8ve when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with diﬀerent linguis8c backgrounds, poli8cal and religious beliefs or other general diﬀerences.   3.Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or pos8ng a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughzul. Avoid the use of all capital leEers, it can be perceived as if you are shou8ng, and it is more diﬃcult to read.  4.Keep your communica8ons focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  5.Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   Email and Discussion Board Guidelines: 1.Use the subject line eﬀec8vely by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about.  2.Keep your emails and pos8ngs related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  3.Any personal, course or conﬁden8al issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.   XVIII.Global CiJzens Project MAN 3025 is cer8ﬁed as a Global Ci8zens course and may be used to fulﬁll par8al requirements of the Global Ci8zens Award upon successful comple8on of the course (ﬁnal grade of B or higher) XIX.Course Technology & Student Support  Academic AccommodaJons: Students in need of academic accommoda8ons for a disability may consult with Student Accessibility Services (formerly Students with Disabili8es Services) to arrange appropriate accommoda8ons.  Students are required to give reasonable no8ce prior to reques8ng an accommoda8on.in order to receive academic accommoda8ons.  Academic Support Services: The USF Oﬃce of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide eﬀorts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Oﬃce of Student Success website at- hEp://www.usf.edu/student-success/  Canvas Technical Support:  Include informa8on where students can ﬁnd technical support.  8Example: If you have technical diﬃcul>es in canvas, you can ﬁnd access to the canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu. Changes to the syllabus: Although it is highly unlikely to happen, the course instructor reserves the right to change any part of this syllabus if he deems that circumstances warrant such change(s). XX.  Extra credit opJon: Many of my students have requested the opportunity to do extra credit work to help give them the best grade possible.  I am more than happy to do this.  Please note:  You are NOT required to do extra credit, it is strictly your decision as to whether or not you want to do it. For those of you who wish to get up to 30 points of extra credit, please follow the instruc8ons below.  This will tell you how to sign up to  par8cipate in various research studies (you choose which ones you want) which will award you “SONA points” which go to your extra credit account.  For this course, ONE “Sona point” is worth THREE extra credit points for this class.  Thus, the most SONA points you will get credit for is ten (which equals 30 points in this class). If you decide to go for extra credit, don't wait un8l the end of the semester to do it.  Most of the studies wrap-up three weeks before the term ends. InstrucJons for Voluntary Student ParJcipaJon The Customer Experience Lab Tampa Thank you for considering par8cipa8on in the Customer Experience Lab Tampa! The CE Lab Tampa is designed to enrich your understanding of research while also providing you a chance to earn extra credit for your course(s). You may have the opportunity to par8cipate in studies oﬀered either online or in-person. You will earn SONA points in exchange for each study completed: 1 SONA point for each 15-minute online study or 4 SONA points for each in-person study. Your professor will determine how much that credit is worth in your course. Please check your course guidelines or confer with your professor to conﬁrm how many studies you should complete to earn full extra credit. Below are instruc8ons outlining two (2) simple steps you need to take to par8cipate. 9Step 1: Create Your SONA Account (~2 minutes to complete) SONA is an online management system where you can view and par8cipate in online studies oﬀered by the CE Lab Tampa. However, you must ﬁrst create a SONA account for yourself. Note: Every student must create a SONA account even if you have par8cipated in a previous semester. Every student SONA account is deleted from the SONA system at the end of each semester. 1.Go to hEps://usf-cmsi.sona-systems.com 2.Click on the light green ‘USF NetID Log In’ buEon. 3.Select the CORRECT course(s) for which you want to earn extra credit. (e.g., ‘Morgan, MAR 4933, Social Media Marke8ng’) 4.If you are in mul>ple courses oﬀering this extra credit op8on, make sure to select each course to ensure they are linked to your account. 5.Click ‘Request Account’. Once you receive a conﬁrma8on email, you are good to go! Step 2: Check for Available Studies and ParJcipate 1.Go to hEps://usf-cmsi.sona-systems.com and log in using the light green ‘USF NetID Log In’ buEon. 2.Click on the ‘Available Studies’ buEon on your account homepage. You are eligible to complete any study you see on this page. The CE Lab Tampa Management team will send email no8ﬁca8ons when studies are available but you can also check this page on a regular basis. *You can only complete each study once and you can only apply the credit you earn for a single study to one course (i.e., you cannot apply the same credit to mul8ple courses). 3.Online studies: To par8cipate, click on the Study Title and then ‘View Study Website’. This will immediately re-direct you to a separate page (or tab) where you can complete the online session. In-person studies: Click on the Study Title and sign up for a study 8meslot. Arrive to the lab – BSN 2404 – 5 minutes before your scheduled 8meslot. Please do not bring food/drink. 4.Once you’ve completed a study, navigate to the ‘My Schedule/Credits’ tab from your SONA homepage to conﬁrm you received credit. **If you are in mul8ple courses, click “Reassign Credit” to choose the course you want the credit to go towards.** BEST WISHES FOR A GREAT SEMESTER! 10