  
 
 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Giti Javidi  
Office Location:  Sarasota Campus – C217  
Office Hours:  Virtual hours Tuesdays 2p-3p 
Phone Number:  941-359-4257  
Email:  javidi@usf.edu  Semester:  Spring 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  100% online  
Class Meeting Time:  100% online  
Class Meeting Location:  Canvas/Microsoft  Teams  
 
 
IMPORTANT DATES:  
 
January 9  Classes  begin  
January 13  Drop/add  ends;  fee liability/tuition  payment  deadline   
January 16  Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday; no classes  and USF offices closed  
February 6  Spring graduation application due  
February 20  Midterm grading opens   
March 7  Midterm grading closes  
March 13  Spring Final grading opens  
March 13 -19 SPRING BREAK  
March 25  Spring last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty  
March 27  Summer/Fall reg istration begins  
April 22 -28 Test Free Week  
April  28 Spring  last day of classes  
Apr. 29-May 4 Final Exam Week  
May 9   Final  grading closes   
May 12   Final grades visible on OASIS  
 
 
COURSE PREREQUISITES: ISM3011  
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION: (From Catalog). Introduction to information security and IT risk management 
in organizations. Covers essential IT general controls and frameworks to assess IT risk in a business 
environment.  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:  
 Agrawal, Campo and Pierce, Information Security and Risk Management, Wiley, 2014, ISBN 
9781118335895   
Information Security and IT Risk Management | Wiley  
 
OPTIONAL TEXTBOOKS:  
 Westerman, George and Richard Hunter, IT Risk: Turning Business Threats into Competitive 
ISM4323  
Information Security and Risk 
Management   
School of Information Systems and 
Management Information Assurance and 
Cybersecurity Management Program  
  Advantage, Harvard Business School Press, 2007, ISBN 1422106667  
 Gibson, Darril and Igonor, Andy, Managing Risk in Information Systems, Jones and Bartlett, 
2022, 9781284183719  
 
COURSE TOPICS: This course will cover the following content areas:  
• System administration  
• Information Security model  
• Asset identification  
• Threats and vulnerabilities  
• Encryption controls  
• Identity & Access management  
• Hardware and software controls  
• Shell scripting  
• Incident handling  
• Incident analysis  
• Security policies  
 
COURSE OBJECTI VES:  
1. To introduce the importance of information security and related business concern.  
2. To make students aware of the major categories of information security threats.  
3. To make students aware of the common information security controls.  
4. To enable students to  implement the basic information security controls.  
5. To introduce students to the important legal provisions regarding information security.  
6. To make students aware of the methodological implications for information security arising from 
these legal provisio ns. 
7. To provide students with an understanding of the standard methodologies for complying with 
legal requirements for IT general controls.  
8. To provide basic understanding of IT risk management in organizations.  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES:  
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Students will demonstrate an understanding of security concerns and issues in organizations.  
2. Students will have the ability to identify major categories of information security threats.  
3. Students will have the ability to apply various kinds of controls to  counter common threats.  
4. Students will have the ability to apply best practices related to IT controls to comply with legal 
requirements.  
5. Students will have the ability to provide solutions to mitigate IT risks.  
 
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
• Canva s: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If 
you need help  learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canva s help guides. You may 
also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . The course will include 
recorded lectures, reading assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, discussions and 
homework (pos ted on CANVAS).  
 
COURSE LOGISTICS:  
1. Students may form groups of three students each to complete projects.  
2. Use the phrase “ISM4323” in the subject line of your email (no spaces) to help me filter emails.   3. In all deliverables and communication, please include the names of ALL students involved. 
This is needed for allocating grades correctly. You will lose credit  for not doing so.  
4. Readings and assignment deliverables are always scheduled on the Friday of the week.  
5. Deliverables are due by the end of day on the due date (usually this means 11:55pm).  
6. We will try to manage class time so that as much of the hands -on activity is performed in class 
as possible.  
7. Assignments for each chapter have 5 components – questions, example case, critical thinking, 
hands -on activities and design case. Critical thinking and example case are worth 0.5% each, 
the other activities are worth 1% of the credit for the course. These assignments can take time, 
please plan your time accordingly.  
8. The design case is your opportunity to conduct industry research. This is your opportunity to 
discover issues, concerns, products and solutions not discussed in class and apply them within a 
coherent framework to solve customer concerns.  
9. I will do my best to try and teach you something useful, not merely certify what you already 
know. This impacts exam preparation too. For example, you s hould not expect a shortlist of 
questions to prepare.  
10. Subject to availability of time, select groups will be invited to present their designs in class on 
the last day.  
 
GRADING POLICIES  
•    Makeup Exam Policy : There will be  no make -ups for the midterm, or t he final exam. Make up 
opportunities will only be provided for job -related situations and for medical emergencies in the 
immediate family.  
• Late Submission Policy:  All assigned work are expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. 
of the due date. Late a ssignments will not be accepted unless prior permission has been granted 
by your Instructor. It is okay for students to work ahead and complete all assignments, labs and 
tests if they desire, but no makeups or extra credit will be offered.  
• Exam Retention P olicy : After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with 
the class and collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current 
one, and then they will be destroyed.  
 
GRADING SCALE  
USF policy requires that  all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s 
drop/withdraw date (please refer to important dates on page 1 of this syllabus). Student performance for 
this course will be evaluated based on tests, assignments, and quizzes , as detailed below. Below is a 
summary for the determination of the final grade and an explanation for each component:  
 
Deliverables  Unit weight  Total weight  
Assignments ( total 4) 10% 40% 
Quizzes ( total 12) 2% 24% 
Midterm Exam  15% 15% 
Final Exam  15% 15% 
Discussions  6% 6% 
Total  100%  
A+ = 97 -100; A=94 -96; A - =90-93; B+ = 87 -89; B=84 -86; B - = 80-83;  
C+=77 -79; C = 74 -76; C - + 70-73; D = 60 - 69; F = 59 or below  
   
STUDENT EXPECTATIONS   • Attendance Policy : There is no live lecture attendance requirement. Everything  will be placed on 
Canvas.  
• Course Hero/Chegg Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may 
not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this 
purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these 
websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitu tes a violation of the academic 
integrity policy.  
• End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for 
students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made 
available at the end  of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the 
response window opens. Your participation is expected  and valued.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic 
format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that 
states if and how another author’s work was use d in the assignment. For a more detailed look at 
this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
• Note to Students:  All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the 
online  terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  
Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may elect  
to drop or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
• Honorlock  for the Exams:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  
proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a 
microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz. Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  
is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be 
done  with the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.  To avoid  any concerns  in this 
regard, students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with concerns  may discuss  
location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  
ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  priva cy rights  and accept  all 
responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Students  are strictly  
responsible  for ensuring  that they take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  
internet  connection.  Setup  informatio n will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To 
use Honorlock,  students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  
extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  proctoring  student  
FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of 
policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
WEB PORTAL INFORMATION  
Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail account.  Students receive official USF 
correspondence and Canvas course information via that address.  The web portal is accessed at 
http://my.usf.edu . 
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Suppor t Services:   The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, 
computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information 
Commons is staffed by l ibrarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e -
learning specialists. Students challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or 
other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a 
plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning 
Support Services ( http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic -resource s/information -
commons/tutoring.aspx ) which are provided at no cost to students.  
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and 
internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or  seeking employment, 
Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare 
professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school 
information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career 
advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa 
Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information, email  asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and 
graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work 
individually with you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to 
editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or 
to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center: The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus 
community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, 
and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact 
information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocatin g for their rights, and by offering support and resources. 
Contact information is available online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center: The Student Succe ss Center provides free tutoring and 
writing consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center: The Wellness Center provides counse ling and medical services, 
as well as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is 
available online .  
Sarasota -
Manatee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring 
and writing consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, 
Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanis h. Make an 
appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and 
harassment, including sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (94 1) 504 -8599. 
For assistance leave a message with your phone number and your call will be 
returned as soon as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of  crime, sexual assault, and partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with m e? You can either (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) 
call/text me or (iii) set up an appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through 
Canvas, please write the appropriate subject and include  your name at the botto m of the email. The emails 
should be composed professionally and the language should be courteous and respectful.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted 
through Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, 
unless your question is about that subject. If you  are using the “Reply” button as a means to get 
my email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous text 
from that email, if your email pertains to something else.  
 
How will I communicate with you? I will send an nouncements through Canvas. The announcements 
should arrive in your inbox. If you send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through 
Canvas. If you send me an email directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every 
attempt to  reply to your emails within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 
hours on weekends. Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Spam  Mail folder so if you have not 
received my response within 24 hours, please either resend your em ail or call my office phone number 
and leave a message in case I am not in my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments through 
Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and 
announcements. I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   It is a lot of trouble  to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I had a 
reason for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and expectations and have 
your questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a more productive semester. 
Please read  every word  in this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me any questions.  
• Complete the reading assignmen ts:  You will get a lot more out of this class if you complete the 
assigned readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never complete it 
or try to cram it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, un satisfactory 
grades are due to procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to 
complete the assigned readings  for this class.  
• Watch the recorded lectures /external videos : Some modules will  include recorded lectures and 
LinkedIn Learn videos . The lectures that are prepared by me contain topics that I think are the most 
important in the course. Please watch them.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing assignments :  You cannot pass the course without doing at 
least most of the as signments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you get behind, 
you will find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Complete the quizzes:  Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage you 
to complete them by the due dates.  
• The bottom line “Do not procrastinate. ” 
   COURSE SCHEDULE:  
 
Modules  Topic  Reading  Assessments  Deadlines  
1 Syllabus, Introduction  Chapter 1  Quiz1   
2 Introduction to information security  Instructor notes 
and handouts  Quiz 2  
3 System administration – part 1, 2  Chapter 2  Quiz 3  Assignment  1 - due 
4 System administration – part 1, 2  Chapter 3  Quiz 4  
5 Basic information Security model  Chapter 4  Quiz 5  
6 Asset identification  Chapter 5  Quiz 6 Assignment 2 - due 
7 Threats and vulnerabilities  Chapter 6  Midterm Exam   
Midterm Exam  [15%] 
8 Encryption controls  Chapter 7  Quiz 7  
9 Identity & Access management  Chapter 8  Quiz 8 Assignment 3 - due 
10 Hardware and software controls  Chapter 9  Quiz 9  
11 Shell scripting  Chapter 10  Quiz 10  
12 Shell scripting  Chapter 10  Quiz1 1  
13 Incident handling  Chapter 11  Quiz 1 2  Assignment 4 - due 
14 Incident analysis  Chapter 12     
15 Policies  Chapter 13 & 14      
16 Final Exam [1 5%] 
 