 
 
 
Document last updated: 1/3/2023  
 
MAN 3093 - Healthcare Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Semester  Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days  Asynchronous throughout the Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Time  N/A 
Class Meeting Location  Online/Canvas  
Instructor  Dr. Sandy Weiss , DBA, MBA -HCM, RN, CPHQ, CPPS, CSM, PMP  
Email  ssweiss@usf.edu   
LinkedIn  www.linkedin.com/in/sandysingletonweiss     
Teaching Assistant (TA)  Catalina Tiamson, MEd  
TA Email  ctiamson@usf.edu   
Office Location  MS Teams Meeting  
Office Hours  As needed, virtually, by appointment only. Please reach out and we 
will find a time to meet!    
*Please see the section of the syllabus that outlines expectations for email etiquette. Also, please 
CC our TA on all email correspondence.  
 
Course Description : 
This course is designed to explain fundamental management principles and how they are applied to the healthcare setting. Since there are no required prerequisites for this course, it provides a general framework and an introduction to management principles  and unique issues 
that managers within the healthcare industry may face. This course lays the foundation for managers within organizations that deliver high quality healthcare. Course goals are met through reading assignments, discussion posts, and assess ments.    
 Course Objectives:  
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: 1) Appreciate the unique characteristics, requirements, and emerging trends related to health care management.  
2) Explain various roles and components commonly associated with managing within a health 
care environment.  
3) Understand the industry dynamics that drive medical practice sustainability and profitability.  
4) Develop a logical and systematic process for identifying problems and opportunities related 
to managing health care organizations.  
5) Demonstrate the capacity to act strategically when managing within the realm of health care.  
6) Integrate knowledge from previous coursework and experiences to add value to the skillset of managing a health care firm.  
7) Enhance leadership and organization skills by setting realistic cohesive priorities and expectations.  
8) Have a better understanding of how to think and act like a health care manager!  
 Course Prerequisites:   
None!  
    
 
  
2 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Required Textbook:  
Buchbinder, S. B., Shanks, N. H., & Kite, B. J. (2021).  Introduction to health care management. 
Burlington, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning.  Fourth Edition.  
 (ISBN: 9781284156560).   
Link to publisher page: https://www.jblearning.com/catalog/productdetails/9781284156560  
The electronic  edition is an  acceptable  alternative to the hard copy . 
 Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials : 
Supportive learning material is provided in the table that reviews the weekly assignments. If you find links not working or have questions about any of the resources, please reach out to your professor.  
 How to Succeed in this Course : 
Submit all assignments timely and stay engaged in the discussion posts. If you are struggling, 
communicate early and often with your professor. If you feel that you will struggle with 
deadlines and due dates or choose to not abide by the terms of this syllabus, please drop thi s 
course.  
 Academic Continuity : 
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued pandemic or hurricane season.  Please check Canvas regularly for any pertinent 
updates regarding this.  
 Communication: 
There is a FAQ section/discussion in Canvas for you to post questions about the course that you 
have. Peers/classmates are encouraged to answer questions, if the answer is known. Please carefully review the syllabus before posting a question. If a question is personal in nature, or something you are not comfortable posting in FAQ, please email your instructor with CC to our TA.  
 Please see professionalism section regarding email etiquette. While responses are generally within one business day, please allow up to three business days for a response . If by chance I 
do not respond, please do not take it personally, it is not intentional! If that occurs, please email me aga in! Also, make sure you have my email address correct ssweiss@usf.edu.  
  Grading  Scale  
Grade  Points  Grade  Points  Grade  Points  
A > 930  B- 800-829 D+ 670-699 
A- 900-929 C+ 770-799 D 630-669 
B+ 870-899 C 730-769 D- 600-629 
B 830-869 C- 700-729 F ≤ 599  
There will not be rounding of your grade, please do not ask. You are responsible for knowing how you are doing in the course;  your grade is determined by your output . You are expected to 
carefully read the syllabus and the rubric for each assignment. If you have questions about assignments, you are encouraged to reach out well in advance of due dates.  
  
 
  
3 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Assignment Type (n)  Total Points  Overall Percentage (%)  
Syllabus Quiz (1)  10 1 
Introduction (1)  40 4 
Discussion Posts (1 0) 700 (70 points each)  70 
Exams (5)  250 (50 points each)  25 
Extra Credit (1)  5 n/a 
 
Weekly breakdown of assignments/points  
Week  Chapter 
(s) Intro 
Video  Syllabus 
Quiz  Discussion 
Post  Exam  Weekly 
Points  
1 1 40 10   
50 
2 2 & 3   
 70  
70 
3 4  
 70  
70 
4 NA  
  
50 50 
5 5 & 6   
 70  
70 
6 7  
 70  
70 
7 NA  
  50 50 
8 8  
 70  
70 
9 9 & 10    70  70 
SPRING BREAK  
10 NA    50 50 
11 11   70  70 
12 12 & 13    70  70 
13 NA    50 50 
14 14 & 15    70  70 
15 16 & 17     50 50 
16    70  70 
Totals  = 40 10 700 250 1000  
No assignments are weighted. Each assignment is worth a certain number of points, the points of all assignments equal 1,000 (thus accounts for 100% of your final grade).  
 
**Note that assignments and information within this syllabus are subject to change at the 
discretion of the instructor. If changes are made, you will receive communication via an 
announcement on Canvas.  It is the responsibility of the student to check Canvas daily!    
 Assignment Overview* * 
Syllabus Quiz:  THIS IS USED TO TAKE  FIRST DAY ATTENDENCE AND MUST BE TAKEN BY MIDWEEK on the 
FIRST WEEK OF THE SEMESTER. YOU WILL BE MARKED ABSENT  (and subsequently dropped)  
FROM THE CLASS IF YOU DO NOT COMPLETE THIS TIMELY. The quiz  is open book (e .g., use 
your syllabus !), and you may take  it two times. The highest score will be retained and 
recorded. More information can be found on Canvas.  
   
 
  
4 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Introduction: 
Since this as an online course, our interaction is somewhat limited compared to a face -to-face 
classroom setting. We will kick the semester off by posting video introductions. Please introduce yourself; feel free to share any personal details you would lik e with the class (not mandatory), 
what your major is, what you hope to accomplish or learn by the end of the semester, any fears or concerns you have going into the semester, and what you are most excited to learn about! Please also include any academic or career goals that you would like to share with the class. In 
addition to the video, you must provide a typed summary within the body of the discussion (or ensure that your video utilizes closed captioning).  This assignment is graded based on 
completion. W hile responses to other students are not required, they are strongly encouraged! 
Late submissions for this assignment will result in a zero, emailing the assignment to Dr. Weiss does not count as a submission. It is your responsibility to upload your assignment timely. If you have problems uploading your video, please reach out to IT.  
  
Here are instructions on how to post a video within the discussion (you may also use your own 
YouTube account if you choose to):  
https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor -Guide/How -do-I-record -media -using- the-Rich -
Content -Editor -as-an/ta -p/864   
 Discussion Posts (Initial Discussion Post and Post Responses):  Successful completion of this course requires that you actively participate in discussion posts (assigned in the module and post prompts are detailed in the table at the end of this document). Since we do not “meet” as a class, these discussion posts are d esigned to make the course 
engaging and highly interactive!   
You are expected to submit your initial post prior to midnight (eastern time zone) on Wednesday within the week of the specific module, and you must respond to two classmates’ posts prior to mid night on Sunday of that same week (11:59pm ET) unless otherwise noted in 
Canvas via announcement or post. You must submit your post text within the discussion board, 
not as a Word doc, attachment, or email to the instructor.    
Posts must utilize references and be substantial, significant, and completely address all elements of the prompt. A few sentence initial post or post response is not acceptable, and your grade will reflect this. Aim to provide a minimum of two reference for initial posts and responses. You are expected to cite the textbook and any other supplemental material used as a resource in your post.  
 The earlier you post, the more time everyone has to create thoughtful, rich, and detailed post responses. It also allows your instructor more time to read and assist with the development of a more robust understanding of the topic. You may post up to two weeks in advance ; the 
modules will be open, and the discussion will be available to you ahead of time. Late initial 
posts  will be accepted until Sunday at 11:59pm of the week they are due, but there is a 20% 
penalty per day! Late post responses  will NOT be accepted. (e.g. if you post your initial post 
Thursday, the highest grade possible is 80% on that portion of the assignment, and if you post on Sunday the highest possible score you can receive for that position of the assignment is 20%)  
You should anticipate seeing a grade approximately three business days after the deadline has 
closed (by Wednesday evening) , though that is subject to change depending upon the 
instructor’s schedule. If the posting of grades is significantly delayed, you will be notified via an 
announcement in Canvas.    
 
  
5 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 CAREFULLY REVIEW THE RUBRIC (attached in the module). To receive 100% you must go 
BEYOND the minimum requirements.  
If you are struggling with deadlines, please reach out to your instructor BEFORE reaching an assignment deadline.  
 Exams : 
You are encouraged to not wait until the last day or final hours to take the exam or quizzes; they will be available for you to take approximately one week prior to the due date. It is the responsibility of the student to complete all assigned readings and  be prepared! You must use 
Honorlock for these exams! These assessments will cover material from the chapters noted in the 
schedule. You will NOT receive a study guide for exams or quizzes, but they are OPEN BOOK 
(electronic or paperback/physical copy OK).  While they are open book (book, notes, and 
PowerPoints), they are timed, so please complete readings before attempting to take the exam (time details noted in the module). The questions may be a mix of multiple choice and true/false.  
 
If you experience technical difficulties, do not contact your instructor. You must reach out to Honorlock or USF IT (depending upon the issue). Note, this is another great reason to take the exam as early as possible . 
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requiremen ts including the online terms and video 
testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course 
is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw 
from this course before the  end of the drop/add period.  
 
Online exams within this course require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required 
to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and 
that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person 
residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private 
spaces  for the testing.  The University library and other academic sites at the University offer 
secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an 
appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.   Students must ensure that 
any recordings do not invade any third party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and 
liability for violations of any third party privacy concerns.   Setup information will be provided 
prior to taking the proctored exam. For  additional information about online proctoring you can 
visit the  online proctoring student FAQ . 
 
For all writing in this course : 
Please use APA formatting for citing sources in your posts and APA format for any writing 
assignments: 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide
/in_text_citations_the_basics.html  
 
Writing resources that you are encouraged to utilize:  
USF Online Writing Tutoring  
This resource receives your work and then takes 1 -2 days to turnaround back to you.   You will 
not be able to dialogue with the tutor who will spend an hour max on reviewing your work. Click  
 
  
6 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 the link below to see the instructions, submission format requirem ents, and more details about 
this resource.  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -life/student -success- center/writing/writing -
tutoring.aspx  (Links to an external site.)  
If you have questions after receiving your work back, it is advised to schedule a live Academic 
Writing Session (link below).   There are limited appointments, and for the month of November 
only the first three Wednesdays are currently available. If you think you will need assistance 
based on the feedback you received last week, we recommend you preschedule an appointment 
in anticipation of that.   
Schedule a live Academic Writing Session with a USF St. Pete Online Tutor:  
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/USFSPOnlineTutoringSummer2020@usfedu.onmic
rosoft.com/bookings/s/m87g96dNwECST__T -UrwhQ2  (Links to an external site.)   
Please schedule meetings in anticipation of needing assistance since there is limited assistance 
available.   
Grammarly for grammar and spelling checks:  
https://www.grammarly.com/  (Links to an external site.)   
This is an automated resource you can submit your work to and receive instant feedback.   
Citation Assistance  
https://lib.stpetersburg.usf.edu/Citations  (Links to an external site.)  
 
Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination: 
Grades will be posted to Canvas as quickly as possible. Allow at least one week, up to two 
weeks, from the assignment due date. If grading will be significantly delayed , you will see an 
announcement in Canvas.  
Course Schedule: Please see table at the end of this document titled: Tentative Schedule of Assignments  
Integration of This Course into Your Academic Experience : 
You should be aware that some of the work you complete this semester will be used for purposes other than calculating your final course grade.  More specifically, different types of assessments are required for us to maintain our accreditation as a university and/or as a college of business.  Most of these assessments are done as part of the course and will require no additional work from you as a student. If you have any questions or concerns about this please let me know.  
USF Core Syllabus Policies : 
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF . Be 
sure to review these online at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx    
 
Late Work Policy : 
There are no make- ups for writing, quizzes, or exams (any assignment in this course). Late initial 
posts are only accepted as outlined in the rubric, with substantial penalty. No late quizzes, exams, writing assignments, or discussion post responses are ac cepted in this course. Please 
work ahead and do not wait until the last minute to submit an assignment.   
 
  
7 
Document last updated 1/3/2023  
Extra Credit Policy : 
There may be the opportunity for extra credit in this course. Your professor will let you know 
when or if that opportunity arises. Do not ask your professor for extra credit, that is not 
appropriate.  
 
*Email Etiquette and Communication Expectations  
-Preferred method of contact is via USF email ( ssweiss@usf.edu ), do not email your instructor from 
your personal email account. Your instructor will NOT respond to emails from personal email 
accounts!   
-Please reference the course (MAN 3093) in your email subject line.  
-Salutation should be professional (Hi Dr. Weiss, Dear Dr. Weiss, etc. Something along the lines of 
HEY PROF is not acceptable  and may not be responded to. Please be respectful and professional.)  
-Before asking a question, please review the syllabus to ensure that what you are asking is not 
addressed. Be very specific with your question/request.  If the question is something that may 
benefit other students, post it in the course FAQ section in Canvas.  
-Please allow up to two business days for a response.   
 Here are a few links that provide  additional  guidance on email etiquette:  
https://www.colorado.edu/amath/sites/default/files/attached- files/email_etiquette_1.pdf
 
https://www.math.uh.edu/~tomforde/Email -Etiquette.html  
https://academicpositions.com/career -advice/h ow-to-email-a- professor  
  
Determination of Final Course Grade 
 
Course Grade  Course Requirements  
A 93% or 930 points (up to 1000 points)  
A- 90% or 900 points (up to 929 points)  
B+ 87% or 870 points (up to 899 points)  
B 83% or 830 points (up to 869 points)  
B- 80% or 800 points (up to 829 points)  
C+ 77% or 770 points (up to 799 points)  
C 73% or 730 points (up to 769 points)  
C- 70% or 700 points (up to 729 points)  
D 60% or 600 points (up to 699 points)  
F <60% or less than 600 points  
  Course Format:  
This is an asynchronous online course with multiple weekly assignments to keep you engaged and connected to your peers. You are expected to complete all assignments timely and are encouraged to post  initial discussion responses early to give your peers additional time to create 
thoughtful and robust responses to your initial post. This will encourage a collaborative learning 
environment. There are no lectures in this course, your professor will be highly engaged in the 
discussion posts. It is recommended that you focus your energy on reading and providing discussion posts and responses that help bring additional context to the discussion. Tap into  
 
  
8 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 your own professional experience to provide life to th e discussion. There are also no test prep 
guides, as the exams are all open book. Remember, discussion posts/responses are worth >50% 
of your grade.  
 
Rather than solely relying on the text, you are expected to tap into your personal/professional 
experience and discuss how these principles and readings can be applied to the real world. Your 
instructor works in industry and will frequently jump in to the discussion to provide additional information or ask questions. If you want limited engagement and an “easy  A,” this is not the 
course for you. While there are no live lectures or class meetings, the discussion posts are intended to bring a level of engagement to the class that is not typically found in an online asynchronous learning environment.  
 Professionalism Policy : 
Email Etiquette and Communication Expectations:  
-Preferred method of contact is via USF email (ssweiss@usf.edu). Do not email your instructor 
from your personal email account. Your instructor will NOT respond to emails from personal email accounts!  -Please reference the course prefix and number, including section in your email subject line  
-Salutation should be professional (Hi Dr. Weiss, Dear Dr. Weiss, etc. Something along the lines 
of Hey, Hey Prof, Mrs. Weiss, or Sandy  is not ac ceptable ). 
-Before asking a question, please review the syllabus to ensure that what you are asking is not 
addressed. Be very specific with your question/request. If the question is something that may benefit other students, post it in the course FAQ secti on in Canvas.  
-Please allow up to three business days for a response  
-CC our TA, Catalina on your email: Ctiamson@usf.edu
   
 
Here are a few links that provide additional guidance on email etiquette:  https://marktomforde.com/academic/undergraduates/Email-Etiquette.html
    
https://academicpositions.com/career -advice/how -to-email-a- professor   
 University Assessment  
You should be aware that some of the work you complete this semester will be used for purposes other than calculating your final course grade.  More specifically, different types of 
assessments are required for us to maintain our accreditation as a university and/or as a college 
of business.  Most of these assessments are done as part of the course and will require no 
additional work from you as a student.  
 
Key Leadership Skill(s) and Perspectives Addressed in This Course:   
Numbers indicate levels 0 -5. 
 
Communication  Information 
Technology Skills   Critical 
Thinking  Ethics and 
Sustainability  Global and 
Multicultural 
Competence  
3 (a)  1 (b)  3 (c)  1 (d)  1 (e)  
 (a) Demonstration of preparation for class with discussion posts and responding to other students posts.  
(b) Chapter 8 (Health Information Systems and Technologies), interfacing with Canvas   
 
  
9 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 (c) Entire course, Chapter 2 (Leadership) Chapter 3 (Management and Motivation) and 
discussion posts  
(d) Chapter 15 (Laws and Ethics) and Chapter 16 (Health Care Regulation and Compliance)  
(e) Chapter 14 (Addressing Health Disparities: Cultural Proficiency) and Chapter 17 (Special 
Topics)  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
(standard USF policy verbiage)  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is i n residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate 
students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
For graduate courses:  A
 n Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instruc tor as long as it does not exceed 
two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters 
for undergraduate courses and one seme ster for graduate courses (including summer semester) 
will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Attendance Policy: Your professor does not take attendance, but the expectation is that you submit your weekly assignments timely and are an engaged member of the class. This is an online course that has weekly assignments. Students are expected to participate and complete assignments timely, as 
outlined within this document.  
 Campus Free Expression:  
(standard USF policy verbiage)  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to  
 
  
10 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of  the ideas. Understanding 
an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
There are no makeup exams or quizzes. Please review the syllabus and schedule accordingly. If 
you foresee issues, please contact your instructor.  
 Rewrite Policy :  
There are no rewrites allowed in this course.  
 Group Work Policy :  
There are no group projects in this course, but all students are expected to collaborate through interaction in discussion posts.  
 
Final Examinations Po licy:  
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination policy.   
 
Course Policies: Technology and Media  
Canvas : 
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu
. 
 Online Exam Proctoring  (standard USF policy verbiage) : 
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including the online  terms  and video  
testing  requirements , to determine  if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in the course  
is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect  to drop  or withdraw  
from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add period.   
 
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring. Therefore,  students  
will be required to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or 
quiz. Students  understand that this remote  recording device  is purchased and controll ed by the 
student  and that  recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  with  the permission  of any 
person residing in the residence.   
 
To avoid any concerns  in this regard,  students  should select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with  concerns  may  discuss  location of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  
their  instructor  or advisor.   
 
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third- party  privacy  rights  and 
accept  all responsibility  and liability for violations  of any third-party  privacy  concerns.  
Students  are strictly responsible  for ensuring that  they  take  all exams  using a reliable  computer  
and high- speed  internet  connection.  Setup information  will be provided  prior  to taking the 
proctored exam. To use Honorlock,  students  are required to download and install  the Honorlock  
Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF online  proctoring 
student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .    
 
  
11 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 *A note from your professor: The above language is direct from the university. Please know 
that your professor understands that there may be a child, spouse, or animals in the background while you are testing. The purpose of video monitoring is to ensure students are 
not cheating. Common sense is applied here. I do not watch every video, I review ones that 
are “flagged” for suspicious activity.    
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication:  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students (NOT your professor), it is important to remember that academic integrity policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is prohibited by the official regulation
, as is receiving unauthorized information 
about an examination. St udents are expected and required to immediately report instances of 
such violations to the instructor.  
Course Policies: Student Expectations  
Title IX Policy : (standard USF policy verbiage)  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort 
to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) as 
Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible 
options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations 
may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about 
Title IX or for a full list of  resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title-
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . I f you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy  (standard USF policy verbiage) : 
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
  
End of Semester Student E valuations  (standard USF policy verbiage) : 
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will not ify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
A note from your professor: Extra credit - If the class reaches >90% evaluation completion, every 
student in that section will receive 5 assignment points . Your professor can not see who has 
completed the evaluation, but can see the overall completion %.  
 
Turnitin.com  (standard USF policy verbiage) : 
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as  
 
  
12 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. After the 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com
. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day  as in class. This should 
occur automatically when you submit your writing assignment. You should not have to do anything extra on your end to run it through Turnitin.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines (standard USF policy verbiage) : 
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s 
ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Learning Support and Campus Offices (standard USF policy verbiage)  
Academic Accommodations : 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.
 
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 Academic Support Services : 
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website
. 
 Canvas Technical Support : 
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video  
resources in th e “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
 
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
  
 
  
13 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Center for Victim Advocacy : 
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting 
the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and 
resources. Contact information is available online.  
 Counseling Center : 
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.
 
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for th e Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 Writing Studio : 
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  you, at any p oint in the 
writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: writingstudio@usf.edu
.  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota- Manatee cam pus. 
Important Dates to Remember : 
All the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor. For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar
 at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 
 
   
 
  
14 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Tentative Schedule and Assignment Dates are subject to change at the discretion of the 
instructor. If changes are made, you will be notified via Canvas.  
 
Week  Date  Required Reading/Assignment(s)  Discussion Post/Prompt  
1 Jan 9 -16 Chapter 1 - An Overview of Healthcare 
Management (pg. 1)  
 Optional additional reading/resources:  
 Can we import improvements from industry to healthcare?  
https://www.bmj.com/content/bmj/364/bm
j.l1039.full.pdf  
 How Much Should We Expect Healthcare to Mimic Other Industries?  
https://www.beckershospitalreview.com/ho
spital- management -administration/how -
much -should- we-expect- healthcare -to-
mimic -other -industrie s.html  
 Managing Change in Healthcare:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/
PMC3294155/pdf/OMJ -D-07-00001.pdf  
  Video Introduction (see detailed information 
provided above).  
 
SYLLABUS QUIZ DUE MID WEEK!!!!   
2 Jan 16-22 Chapter 2 -Leadership (pg. 27)  
Chapter 3 - Management and Motivation 
(pg. 51)  
  Optional additional reading/resources:  
 10 Tips to Boost Employee Engagement  
https://www.americannursetoday.com/10 -
tips-boos t-employee -engagement/  
 Institute for Healthcare Improvement discusses joy in the workplace: 
http://www.ihi.org/Topics/Joy -In-
Work/Pages/default.aspx  
  IHI YouTube Video on Joy in the Workplace:  
IHI Expedition: Build Joy In Work and 
Prevent Burnout  
 Define emotional intelligence and discuss its 
importance  for healthcare managers . 
Describe , in detail,  a minimum of five 
examples of how emotional intelligence can impact leadership domains and 
competencies (for more information, see Table 2 -6 on pg. 36).  
 
Optional alternative post:  
Discuss how a pandemic situation (COVID -
19) affect s internal and external 
stakeholders  (found in Figure 2 -1 on pg. 28 ). 
Discuss the impact the pandemic  could/did 
have on at least one external and one 
internal stakeholder  group.   
 
  
15 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 Case Study - Implementing a Practice 
Change (pg. 477 of Introduction to Heath 
Care Management, 4th ed)  
3 Jan 2 3- 29 Chapter 4 - Organizational Behavior and 
Management Thinking (pg. 73)  Discuss why preconce ptions in thinking can 
be problematic in a healthcare settin g, 
potential implications for preconceptions , 
and ways to overcome potential preconceptions.  
 Optional alternative post:  
Discuss how emotional intelligence can help 
a healthcare manager interact with 
employees and patients alike during high stress times brought on by a pandemic 
situation ( COVID -19).  
4 Jan 3 - Feb 5 Exam 1 (Chapters 1 -4) No post this week. Review the assigned 
chapters in your textbook  for your exam.  
5 Feb 6 - 12 Chapter 5 - Strategic Planning (pg. 99)  
Chapter 6 - Health Care Marketing (pg. 117)  Discuss mission, vision, and values 
statement as described on page 104. 
Research healthcare organization ’s mission, 
vision, and value statements ; discuss three  
different healthcare organizations ’ 
statements. Discuss their statements and why you feel the statements speak to you 
(as a potential employee and/or patient of 
the organization), and which organization's 
statements resonate with you most and 
why ? Do any of the statements call out 
ethics an d/or sustainability?   
 Optional alternative post:  
Discuss at least two healthcare organizations marketing campaigns during the (COVID -19) 
pandemic.  Do you feel that they were 
successful; how so?  If you were to create a 
marketing plan for a healthcare organ ization 
during the (COVID -19) pandemic, what 
would you focus on?   
 
  
16 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 6 Feb 1 3 –19 Chapter 7 - Quality and Performance 
Improvement Basics (pg. 137)  
 
Optional additional reading/resources:  
To have a better understanding of how CMS assess the impact and efficiency of quality measures, please review this website:  
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality -
Initiatives -Patient-Assessment-
Instruments/QualityMeasures/National-
Impact -Assessment -of-the-Centers -for-
Medicare -and-Medicaid -Services -CMS -
Quality -Measures -Reports  
 
Download and read this PowerPoint from the CMS website to gain a better understanding of what goes in to quality measure maintenance.  
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality -
Initiatives -Patient-Assessment-
Instruments/MMS/Downloads/Measure -
Evaluation -During- Maintenance -and-the-
CMS -National- Impact -Assessment -
%E2%80%93 -webinar.pptx  Discuss at least two of the quality 
improvement tools mentioned in this chapter. Please include the definition, benefits of the use, and what type of 
projects or uses you think would be a best  fit 
for the tool. Describe, in detail, how you 
would use this tool.  
 Optional alternative post:  
Read : Apply TeamSTEPPS Approaches 
During COVID -19 Treatment to Keep 
Patients Safe. Content last reviewed May 2020. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD.  
https://www.ahrq.gov/news/blog/ahrqview
s/applying- teamstepps -covid.html   
or research other quality improvement tools discussed on AHRQs website: 
https://www.ahrq.gov/coronavirus/index.ht
ml 
 
Discuss how you would implement such resources within a healthcare organization.  
What challenges do you think you may face 
and how would you overcome them?  
7 Feb 2 0 - 26 Exam 2 (Chapters 5 -7) No post this week. Review the assigned 
chapters in your textbook for your exam.  
8 Feb 2 7- March 
5 Chapter 8 - Health Information Systems and 
Technologies (pg. 161)  
 Optional additional reading/resources:  
The Office of the National Coordinator 
Health Information Technology: Health IT Dashboard  
https://dashboard.healthit.gov/quickstats/q
uickstats.php   Explain how the delivery of h ealthcare 
services can benefit from health information systems and provide at least two examples .  
 Optional alternative post:  
Discuss the importance and uses of 
telehealth during a pandemic situation.  
9 March 6-12 Chapter 9 - Financing Health Care and Health 
Insurance (pg. 189)  
Chapter 10 - Managing Costs and Revenues 
(pg. 223)  
 Optional additional reading/resources:  
Health Insurance Coverage in the United 
States: 2017  
https://www.census.gov/content/dam/CensWhat are the pros and cons of the different 
types of health  insurance benefit packages 
that someone might purchase?  
 
Optional alternative post:  
Discuss some of the challenges people faced 
related to insurance during the COVID -19 
pandemic.   
 
  
17 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 us/library/publications/2018/demo/p60 -
264.pdf   
 March 1 3-19 Spring Break   
10 March 20-26 Exam 3 (Chapters 8 -10) No post this week. Review the assigned 
chapters in your textbook for your exam.  
11 March 27- April 
2 Chapter 11 - Managing Healthcare 
Professionals (pg. 255)  
 
Optional additional reading/resources:  
AHRQ TeamSTEPPS - 
https://www.ahrq.gov/teamstepps/index.ht
ml  Respond to the section entitled Conflict and 
Communication: Creating a Culture of Safety (on pages 270 -273 of your text). Discuss 
ways that you, as a healthcare manager, can help create the ideal culture in an 
organization. How can culture impac t 
employee turnover?  Feel free to discuss any 
personal experience you have had related to 
this topic.  
 
Optional alternative post:  
Pick at least three of the roles outlined in 
Table 11 -1 (page 257) and 11 -2 (page 258) of 
your text. Discuss how the COVID -19 
pandemic affected  (or may affect)  demand 
for these roles.  
12 April 3 – April 9 Chapter 12 - Strategic Management of 
Human Resources (pg. 287)  
Chapter 13 - Teamwork (pg. 235)  
 Optional additional reading/resources:  
 Why LinkedIn is Important: 7 Reasons to Polish Your Profile Today  
https://www.topresume.com/career -
advice/why -linkedin -is-important  
 Five Reasons Why Every Student Should Be on LinkedIn  
https://www.topuniversities.com/student -
info/careers -advice/five -reasons -why-every -
student -should- be-linkedin  
 
(Please note that  it is not necessary/required 
that you be on/join LinkedIn. I have 
personally found it to be valuable, but I Find a minimum of three  postings for jobs 
that you may be interested in upon 
graduation. This is most beneficial if you use 
this to think about your next step , but you 
may also find a job posting for something that you aspire to do later in your career.  
If you plan to go to graduate school next, think about what  you may want to do when 
you finish  your degree .  
Tell the class a bit about each position , 
discuss  the job functions/purpose, discuss 
the minimum experience and educational qualifications. Tell us why you might be interested in this position.  You may also post 
about potential internships  in lieu of a job 
posting.   
 
This assignment should not only give you a better sense of direction for your future, but 
it will also help your  classmates learn more  
 
  
18 
Document last updated 1/3/2023 understand that not everyone has the same 
experience.)  about  careers or positions they  might not 
have  considered.  
 
While I would love if everyone were going 
into healthcare upon graduation, I 
understand that is not the reality. Please use this assignment to help YOU - choose 
whatever industry you hope to enter (e.g . 
this does not have to be healthcare specific).  
Please reach out to your instructor well in advance of this assignment if you have 
questions or need help!  
13 April 10-April 
16 Exam 4 (Chapters 11 -13) No post this week. Review the assigned 
chapters in your textbook for your exam.  
 
14 April 17- April 
23 Chapter 14 - Addressing Health Disparities: 
Cultural Proficiency (pg. 351)  
 Chapter 15 - Laws and Ethics (pg. 371)  
 Optional additional reading/resources:  
CMS YouTube video: Navigating Health Care 
with a Disability: Our Stories, a Focus on People with Disabilities - 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VgbPFV
0i3vA  
 
 
Case stu dy- Children of the Opioid Crisis (pg. 
556)  What are the benefits of implementing 
programs to address cultural competence 
within a health care organization? What are 
the costs of not implementing such programs?  Feel free to discuss any personal 
experience you have with this topic.  
 Optional alternative post:   
Discuss ethical dilemmas  that healthcare 
practitioners  may face during pandemic 
situations. Describe in detail  the ethical 
decision that needs to be made and how it 
should be resolved  based on readings in 
your textbook and additional research you 
find.   
15 April 2 4-April 
30 Chapter 16 - Health Care Regulation and 
Compliance (pg. 391)  
Chapter 17 - Special Topics and Emerging 
Issues in Health Care Management (pg. 411)  
Exam 5 (Chapters 14 -17) No discussion post this week. Please focus 
on preparing for exam #5. 
 
Look at the due date for next week’s  post; 
please consider posting ahead!  
16 May 1-3 THIS POST  AND YOUR RESPONSES  ARE DUE 
BY MIDNIGHT on WEDNESDAY, MAY 4th! NO 
LATE POSTS OR RESPONSES WILL BE 
ACCEPTED THIS WEEK!  Describe, in detail, at least four skills that 
you learned in this course and discuss how 
you plan to use them in your current or 
future j ob. 
 