 
 
 ISM 4547 SYLLABUS  
Excel with Data Modeling for Business Analytics   
Sections 020, 3 Credit Hours  
Spring 202 3 
 
 
Instructor:  Barb Warner  
Flipped/ Hybrid  Format :  Tues/Thurs  5-6:15pm , Online / MS Teams / BSN 1 23 
Email : bwarner@usf.edu  or Canvas email  
Office hours : Tues/Thurs noon -2pm via Teams (beginning 1/17/22).  Additional hours by appointment , Office :  CIS2007  
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome to ISM 4547!  This may  be another unusual semester for all of us and I want to assure you that USF and the Muma 
College of Business priorities are the health and well -being of students, faculty,  and staff.  Keeping this in mind, we will be 
approach ing the semester armed with data, flexibility, patience  and care . 
II. Course Description :   
This project -based  course provides students with an opportunity to explore business analytics using advanced Exc el 
techniques, incorporating data modeling .   Prerequisites: CGS2100 and ISM3011  
III. Course Objectives  
Using projects  and discussions this course is intended to emphasize  the role of business analysts and data scientists in 
organizations and how creative use of strong technical ski lls can lead to  career advancement in any field .  Students should be 
comfortable using Excel coming into the class to get the most out of the course activities.   
IV. Learning Outcomes .  Upon completion of the course, students should be able to:  
• Design Excel applications tha t will effectively analyze data to solve business problems  
• Employ macros and VBA to automate Excel applications  
• Use data modeling  to integrate with external data sources  
• Demonstrate visualization techniques with internal and external sources to make data more understandable  
• Use spreadsheet  tools to perform optimization and statistical modeling  
• Work with  large worksheets / data sets using a nalytics tools  
V. Course Structure & Format:  
This is a  hybrid,  flipped, project -based course, meaning that we’ll do preparation and skills practice online / at home most 
Tuesdays to introduce new skills .  I’ll have in -class sessions on Thursdays for face -to-face help.   I try to provide all the tools 
and resources ne eded for this class, but you are ultimately responsible for taking advantage  of these resources for a 
successful learning experience.       
• Tuesdays  (online) – I’ll provide video demos to introduce or reinforce new skills and there will be an ‘Exploration E xercise’ 
(EE) assigned.  
• Thursday  (face -to-face) will be  a workday .  I’ll be in the class to answer any questions you may have . 
• Sunday  is the due date for the EEs . LinkedIn activities and module projects .   
VI. Covid -19 Procedures  
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 mitigation measures .  Details are 
available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx . 
 
MS teams will be used and links will be posted on Canvas where appropriate.  Note that recorded Teams sessions may include 
student voice and video.  It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their surroundings is maintained.  
 
VII. Course Materials:   
• Texts: Our eTex t, Microsoft  Excel 2019 Bible  1st Edition  by Michael Alexander,  ISBN:  9781119514787 , is available (for 
free!) from the USF library.  I’ve also put the library pdf(s) in our Canvas course .  You can also purchase it online or at the  
 bookstore, if you want a physical copy. N ote:  This book is for Windows but  please use it even if you have a Mac and we’ll 
adjust, as the Mac text is quite different.  
• Software: You can download  a free copy of Microsoft Office 2016 from portal.office.com/home  
• Laptop  or desktop : required . Laptop required if you  plan to  work on-campus .  Please do not plan to use a Chromebook 
for this class. A Windows laptop is best, a Mac can be used with some adjustments on your part.  
 
VIII. Course Schedule:  
Weeks 1 – 5 
1/9 – 2/12 Module 1 – Review, Formulas, Charts – Activities & Assignments   
• Attend class on  Tuesday,  1/10 in BSN 123 or be dropped from the class (USF policy)  
• Monday, 1/1 6, USF closed for MLK Day  
• Exploration Exercises & LinkedIn assignme nts due weekly, uploaded to Canvas, by Sunday  
11:59pm  
• Sunday , 2/12 – Module 1 Assignment(s) Due, uploaded to Canvas by 11:59:00pm  
 
Weeks 6 - 9 
2/13 – 3/12 
  Module 2 – Optimization & Statistical Modeling – Activities & Assignments  
• Exploration Exercises & LinkedIn assignments due weekly, uploaded to Canvas, by Sunday 
11:59pm  
• Sunday , 3/12 – Module 2 Assignment(s) Due, uploaded to Canvas by 11:59:00pm  
 
Weeks 10 - 14 
3/13 – 4/16 Module 3 – Macros & VBA – Activities & Assignments  
• Week 10 – spring break, 3/13 – 3/19  
• Exploration Exercises & LinkedIn assignments due weekly, uploaded to Canvas, by Sunday 
11:59pm  
• Saturday, 3/2 5 – Last day to drop with a ‘W’, no refund & no academic penalty  
• Sunday , 4/16– Module 3 Assignment(s) Due, uploaded to Canvas by 11:59:00pm  
 
Weeks 15 -17   
4/17 – 5/4 Module 4 –Finishing up  
• Exploration Exercises & LinkedIn assignments due weekly, uploaded to Canvas, by Sunday 
11:59pm  
• Online Presentations  
• Thursday , 5/4 – Ending  Survey Due (complete this via Canvas – not Oasis)  
 
This schedule is not set in stone, but I will try to keep changes to a minimum and give as much notice as possible.  
 
IX. Evaluation :  
Assignments  Grading Scale  Notes  
▪ 50% - Module projects   
 
▪ 45% - Exploration Exercises 
(EEs) –assigned  most  week s, 
lowest grade dropped  
 
▪ 5% - Participation 
(engagement, presentation 
reviews, ending survey)  
 
▪ Extra Credit may be available 
& added to your Module 
Project grades  (usually 20 pts 
max)  A+ 99-100  
A  94-98.99%  
A- 90-93.99%   
B+    87-89.99%  
B 84-86.99%  
B- 80-83.99%  C+ 77-79.99%  
C 74-76.99%  
C- 70-73.99%  
D+ 67-69.99%  
D  64-66.99%  
D- 60-63.99%  
F Below 60%  ▪ All projects will be submitted via Canvas (not 
email).  
▪ In an effort to get your grades to you as soon 
as possible, I’ll often start reviewing projects 
as soon as they are submitted to Canvas.  
Please don’t submit your project unless it’s 
ready for grading.    
▪ Please check your project files after  they are 
submitted to Canvas to confirm what you 
uploaded.  
▪ Once graded, you won’t be able to modify / 
resubmit.  
 
X. Course Policies :  
• Assignments :   
 o Exploration Exercises are introduced on Tuesdays, help is available on Thursdays and are due by the following  
Sunday , submitted via Canvas . 
o Module projects are also submitted to Canvas, due on Sundays, the due dates are listed above . 
• Canvas : Announcements, assignments, online materials, and grades are all on Canvas.  Check it frequently (it is your 
friend).  Be sure that you have set up Canvas to forward email and announcements to the email account you most use. If 
you are new to Canvas, there  are free classes available through academic computing or stop by  during office hours with 
questions.  
• Email :  Please send email to bwarner@usf.edu  or via Canvas email.  
• Re-grade Policy : Re-grade requests  should be emailed to me within two weeks from the date your grade was posted and 
before the end of the semester.  To do this, download and review a copy of your submitted project from Canvas and then 
email me with a description of what was graded incorrectly and why it’s incorrect.  I will do a re -grade but will re -grade 
the whole project and any grading mistakes or omissions (positive or negative) will be corrected.   
• Due dates / late dates : Projects are submitted via Canvas and should be submitted by the due date , Eastern Standard 
Time.  Please don’t wait until the last hour to su bmit, as often that leads to late submissions .  Work can be submitted late 
with a penalty of 5% per day  up to 2 weeks late .  Late work will automatically receive a zero grade in Canvas until the 
work has been reviewed and graded.  
• Illness :  If you are excu sed from work/school for a period of time, please contact me as soon as possible so I will know 
about your situation.  A note from a local doctor or clinic will be required for late submissions.  The note should include 
dates excused from work and school.  If you think you have Covid,  please get a Covid test from the University  ( schedule 
online, no cost ) and send the results to me and we can go from there.  Usually there is a 5 -day extension on any work due 
during that time.  
• Project Support : I am available for project help during Thursday class time  and scheduled office hours . Be sure to give 
yourself e nough time so you can receive assistance when needed.  While I’m also  available for help via email, email 
support is limited  as it’s often  harder to adequately respond to  project  questions via email .  Weekend email responses 
are not guaranteed.  Start earl y, submit  early.  
• Submitting  Projects:  
o No email s ubmissions .  All work must be submitted via Canvas.  
o Procrastination : Please don’t wait until the l ast minute to submit projects and note that C anvas is the official time 
clock  (work due by 11:59:00 EST) .  If you submit close to the deadline and your project takes a few extra minutes to 
upload it will be considered late.  Start early, submit early.  
o Check  your Uploads – Required : Once you submit a project to C anvas, look at the submission information on the 
right side of your screen and 1) download a copy of your project file (s) FROM Canvas to another folder on your 
computer.  2) Open these files, be sure they’re complete, the right project, etc.  and then 3) save this copy.  Thi s is 
your back up copy and the creation and last modified dates will be retained as  long you don’t open them  again  
o Oops !  Work submitted to Canvas incorrectly that cannot be opened or graded for any reason is considered late and 
may or may not be accepted later.  Check your uploads to avoid this.  
• ‘Technology  problems’ , including bad files, bad file names, not knowing how to upload to Canvas correctly (not checking 
an upload), locked files, lost work, slow or bad Internet connection,  power losses,  etc. are n ot valid excuses for 
late/missing work – they are just part of using computers .  Ask questions, get help, do your work early and check that 
assignments are submitted correctly so the inevitable computer problems will not lead to missed points.   
• Extra  Credit  / Curves / Grades.  Extra credit may be available during the semester.  Any extra points will help if you are 
‘close’ to the next grade level and usually the place of any curve or any ‘rounding’ in the class.  Activities will be described 
in on Canvas.  Any integrity violations involving extra credit will result in the loss of all extra credit points.   **Most 
students do very well in this class, however if this is one of your last classes needed to graduate or to keep a scholarship,  
be sure to  monitor your grades .  
• Course Courtesy.  Please see our Canvas Modules area on expectations for students and instructors, but basically – 
please treat all with kindness and patience, respecting and tolerating different opinions  as well technological abilit ies.  
 
XI. Academic  Integrity - Integrity does matter  
Please review:  http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf )  
 • We value learning and realize that technology allows work to be copied easily so we have a strict academic 
integrity policy.   As part of that, we require th at all projects be done individually (unless specifically noted) .  
We have found that more individual learning occurs when students use critical thinking, problem solving skills, 
course / online resources and a bit of trial and error to work through these projects.   The TAs and I are 
available for project help. To facilitate learning we try to guide you to find your own solutions, rather than just 
tell you an answer .    
• **Do not email your work to anyone else to use as a ‘sample’, or as a copy of the data or share in any way .  
Do not deny them the opportunity to experiment and learn potentially valuable career skills.  Also, we use 
software to detect duplicated work.   It is your responsibility  to be sure your project cannot be copied or 
viewed by anyone el se.  
• If you share a computer with another person (not recommended) or use a public computer, remove any 
project work to a flash drive each time you are done working on the project .  
• All work must be completely your own - no copying, pasting, quotes – just your own words/efforts.  Do not use 
anyone else’s work as a reference.  
• Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  Offer specifics about your policy on contract cheating, paper mills, or the use of 
websites that enable cheating.  Example: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not 
use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turn itin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an 
enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Acco rdingly, you will be expected to 
submit specific assignments via the appropriate Canvas / TurnItIn assignment. After the assignment is 
processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was 
used in th e assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
All that being said…  copying, plagiarism or any other form of misrepresentation of one's work is considered 
cheating - this includes cutting/pasting from the Internet or copying anyone else’s projects/assignments, or 
sharing solutions in any way. This applies to all course ass ignments. The minimum penalty for 
collaboration/cheating on an assignment is a zero for that assignment and a referral to the Undergraduate 
Studies Director and Muma College of Business Undergraduate Program Director.  This is applied to all 
parties involv ed.  Maximum penalties may include an F or F/F in the course (instructor’s discretion).  Students 
who have been referred for an academic integrity violation in a prior class will be subject to an F/F in this class 
in accordance with USF’s academic integrit y policies and after discussions with pertinent faculty members, and 
Muma College of Business Undergraduate Advising.  
• College of Business policies do not allow students to drop classes due to academic integrity violations.  
Students will be added back into  classes in these situations.  
 
I do not enjoy the ‘academic dishonesty’ part of teaching – it is emotional for all & takes A LOT of time to deal 
with.  However, I do feel very strongly about honesty/integrity and I do uphold University/my course policies 
on cheating.  One survey of IT professionals found that the key attribute they looked for in new hires was 
integrity (above technical skills). I treat academic dishonesty very  seriously and will fail students who cheat on 
tests or turn in work that is not completely their own.  See “Academic Dishonesty” in the Undergraduate 
Catalog for further discussion.   
  
 If you have questions on academic integrity issues relating individual assignments or tests – please contact me, I’ll be 
glad to discuss this in more d etail.  
 
Additional USF Policies and Resources  
• Standard University Policies.  Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, 
academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed 
by a central set of policies that apply  to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
• Emergency  Operations: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal 
operations.  It’s the responsibility of each student to monitor our Canvas site for each class for course specific 
communication, and the main USF, College, and depart ment websites, emails, and MoBull messages for 
important general information.  
• Incomplete Policy: An ‘I’ grade may be used for situations where a student has an unforeseeable emergency at 
the end of the semester (after the withdrawal date), has a C grade o r better in the class and only has a small 
part of the course to complete.  Written approved documentation is required.   Incompletes can’t be used if a 
student is busy, falls behind or is not doing well.  Students doing poorly in a course should withdraw f rom the 
class or risk receiving a poor/failing grade.  See our schedule for the last day to withdraw from the class.  
• Religious Holy Days : Students who must miss a scheduled test due to the observation of a major religious 
observance must provide notice of  the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, during the first 2 weeks of class. 
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
• Students with Disabilities : Stud ents in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the 
office of Students with Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to 
give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.  
• Disrupt ion of the Academic Process - http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
• Use of notes and recordings:   Please review the offi cial USF policy on this for more info, but the policy states 
that notes, recordings, handouts and other material provided by the instructor cannot be exchanged or 
distributed for commercial purposes or for any purpose not related to a student's study or en rollment without 
written authorization of the instructor.  
• Tutoring Hub  -  For more information, email asctampa@usf.edu  
• Writing Studio - For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
• Counseling Center - The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the cam pus community by providing 
culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and 
personal success. Contact information is available online .  
• Center for Victim Advocacy  - Example: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, 
or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering 
support and resources. Contact information is available online .  
• Class and Online Courtesy – Please review the ‘Getting Started’ section of Canvas and note the two sections: 1) 
“What Can You Expect From the TAs and Me”  and 2) “What the TAs and I Expect from You”.   
• Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this cour se may involve discussion of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Obje ctive means that the idea(s) presented can be tested  
 by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that cer tain ideas 
are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas 
and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are 
required to believe it or agree with it . 
 