                         1   
 
 
 
IMS 4300  
Managing Information Resources  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
 
Semester: Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days: Tuesdays & Thursdays  
Class Meeting Time: TR 5:00 –  6:15 PM (in -person section) -  Optional (remote section)  
Class Meeting Location: BSN 120 (in -person section) -  MS Teams (remote section)  
Instructor:  Weimar Ardila Rueda  
Office Location:  TBA 
Office Hours:  by A ppointment via MS T eams  
Email:  weimar@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Congratulations ISM 4300  students. Based on your  efforts, most of you will  soon be receiving your  
undergraduate degree  from the Muma College of  Business. This course is  designed to help complete  
your preparation and get  you off to a fast start either in a new career or in the  pursuit of an advanced  
degree.  
 
II. Course Description  
The USF course catalog provides this brief description of ISM 4300:  
 
Current issues in information systems management focusing on managing computer resources and 
social issues such as ethics, privacy, and legal issues including intellectual property.  
 This “capstone” course has been modified over the years to keep it relevant to market and  
employer expectations. Today, it is expected that USF Business Analytics graduates be technically  
savvy, have an overall knowledge of technology related issues in business, and be effective at  
working with and contributing to team/group projects. These areas are addressed in the format  
and requirements of the course.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
ISM 4212 with a minimum grade of C and (ISM 4220 with a minimum grade of C or ISM 4402 with  
a minimum grade of C).  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
The purpose of this BA&IS capstone course on managing information syst ems is to provide 
students with the opportunity to apply what they have learned over the course of the BA&IS program in a context where “what to do next” is not obvious or dictated by a textbook. The ISM 
4300 course design consists of two primary elements:  the case discussions and the course project.  
 
 
2 The objective of the case discussions is to give students practice in analyzing complex business 
situations with an information systems component. In every case discussion, students assess how the technology, data and information can inform the decision to be made. In the project, students create an IS artifact that demonstrate proficiency in the domain. The objective of the course 
project is to provide students with the opportunity to demonstrate and practice skills that they 
have acquired over the course of the BA&IS major.  
 
V. Course Format  
Class meetings will be delivered through in -person sessions. However, virtual meetings via MS 
Teams may be scheduled upon any contingency, and students will be notified wit h anticipation.  
 VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:  
• Analyze business problems to identify the key issue(s), formulate recommendations, and 
justify both with factual support from the case and fr om additional research as needed.  
• Assess business issues from the perspective of the information technologies integral to their 
resolution.  
• Demonstrate an ability to communicate a well- considered point of view on a given business 
case to peers (fellow stud ents) and professionals from industry during in class discussions.  
• Develop and present an information systems related project that demonstrates proficiency in one or more areas of the MIS discipline.  
• Develop critical thinking, business problem analysis, an d constructive brainstorming skills in 
the discussion of business cases with peers, the professor, and industry professionals.   
 
VII. Course Objectives  
To ensure students leave the BA&IS undergraduate program with:  
• An appreciation of the complex interaction between individual/organizational forces and 
technological issues in the development, deployment and use of information systems, with 
a particular focus on organizational strategy.  
• The ability to apply the data analytic and problem -solving techniques learned  in the 
undergraduate major to real- world situations.  
• A substantial project that demonstrates what they have learned over the course of the 
BA&IS major.   
 
VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
• Case studies (from Canvas): Case Studies will be made available in CAVNAS.  
• Textbook: (AF) Pro ASP.NET Core MVC 2 [electronic resource] / Adam Freeman, ISBN: 978 -1-
4842- 3150- 0 e-book available from the USF library 
(http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978 -1-4842 -3150 -0) 
• Starting Out with Visual C#, by  Tony Gaddis (technical assignments will include C# 
development activity and this text can serve as a refresher into C# programming)  
 
IX. Communication  
Communications will be handled via email and Canvas messages.  
   
 
3 X. Grading Scale  
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
98 – 100%  
92 – 97 
90 – 91 
88 – 89 
82 – 87 
80 – 81 A+ 
A 
A- 
B+ 
B 
B- 78 – 79 
72 – 77 
70 – 71 
68 – 69 
62 – 67 
60 - 61 
< 60  C+ 
C 
C- 
D+ 
D 
D- 
F 
  
XI. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  
First Day Attendance  5% 
Class Project  55% 
Case Study Discussions  40% 
 
Class Project  
Each student will complete a Class Project by the first portion of the course. The Class Project will 
consist of Full Stack Development activities using C#  and  Python. Project requirement lectures will 
be conducted eac h week in class until the project is completed near the mid -term. Additionally, all 
source code created by the project will be posted to the student’s public GitHub account. This will 
be worth 45% of the overall grade. There will be a deliverable every wee k until the project is 
complete at the mid -term. Each week, students will be assigned a grade of 0, 1, 2, or 3 for the 
deliverable. A grade of 0 will be awarded if the student does not turn in the deliverable or 
unsatisfactory work. A grade of 1 will be aw arded if the student turns in weak work. A grade of 2 
will be awarded if the student turns in a satisfactory deliverable. Finally, a 3 will be awarded for 
excellent work. Students must prepare 4 to 6 hours per week to complete the weekly deliverable.  
 
Once the Class Project is complete, the completed project will be evaluated for a total grade 
weighted  10% of the overall grade.  
 
Case Study Discussions  
After the first portion of the course, each week will be dedicated to Case Study Discussions . 
Weekly assignments will be assigned to reflect upon Case Studies discussed in class. Disuc ussions 
recordings will available for online students . The Case Study assignments will be worth 40%  of the 
overall grade. S tudents must prepare 2 – 4 hours each week for each Case Study.  
 
    
 
    
 
4 XII. Course Schedule . 
 
Week  Class Meetings  Class Project -  Deliverables  
1 10-Jan 12-Jan Programming basics  
2 17-Jan 19-Jan Conditional statements  
3 24-Jan 26-Jan Iterative Statement  
4 31-Jan 2-Feb Arrays  
5 7-Feb 9-Feb Methods  
6 14-Feb 16-Feb Python (1) -  Data structures  
7 21-Feb 23-Feb Python (2) -  Programming  
8 28-Feb 1-Mar Python (3) -  OOP  
9 6-Mar 8-Mar Python (4) -  Data Analysis Fundamentals I  
  13-Mar 15-Mar Spring Break  
10 20-Mar 22-Mar Python (4) -  Data Analysis Fundamentals II  
11 27-Mar 29-Mar Case Study Discussions (1)  
12 3-Apr 5-Apr Case Study Discussions (2)  
13 10-Apr 12-Apr Case Study Discussions (3)  
14 17-Apr 19-Apr Case Study Discussions (4)  
15 24-Apr 26-Apr GitHub portfolio  
(remote sessions)  
16 1-May  3-May  Finals week -  Last date to submit final 
deliverables  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
 
XIII. Course Policies: Grades (include  sections  as applicable  to your course ) 
 
Late Work Policy : No late submissions are allowed.  
 Final Examinations Policy : No exams . 
 
 
XIV. Course Policies : Technology and Media  (include sections as applicable to your course ) 
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you  
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being   
 
5 offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides or investigate online training. You may  
also contact USF 's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Recordings : All lectures, content and class materials will be made available in a recorded  
format via Canvas. We may also record group  sessions where student’s voices and video will be  
included in class recordings. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their  
surroundings and background is maintained.  
 
Laptop Usage: This is a technology class and I encourage to use of computer technology for class 
related activities. Students are allowed and encouraged to use devices for recording class sessions 
for personal use.  
 
Phone Usage: Please turn phones off and have them put away during any class related meetings  
or sessions .  
 
 
XV. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy –  a 
confidential resource that can review all your options –  at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu.  
 Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 Professionalism Policy:   
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment . Please arrive on 
time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade.  
 
Students are expected to adhere to the overall class calend ar and to complete work or 
assignments by the due dates posted in Canvas. It will be difficult to perform at a high level if 
you do not regularly attend discussion group meetings and actively participate. If you need to miss a group meeting, please send a communication to you team with a copy to the professor  
 
6 in advance. If you will be late with a submission, its always good to let your professor know in 
advance.  
   
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructo rs and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing  your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a  
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expres sions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XVI. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services 
(SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic 
support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success 
website.  
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in th e “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu . 
  IT website for the Tampa campus.  
  IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
  IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
  
 
7 Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website fo r the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XVII. Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 