Response of Busines s to Global Environmental Prob lems 
Management 4743-001 (Ref. No. 23095) 
Spring, 2023 
Off Campus (Online) 
Professor:   
Office:        
Office Hours:  
Office Phone:  
Home Phone:  
Electronic Mail:  
Website:  Dr. John M. Jermier 
BSN 3214  
3:15-4:15 p.m ., Monda y, and by appoi ntment (Meet Online, as Needed) 
813-974-1752 
813-972-3297 
Facsimile 813-905-6749; Internet jermier@usf.edu  
(http://www.usf.edu/business/about/bios/jermier-john.aspx) 
Prerequisite: MAN 3240 with a minimum C-
Course  Description  and Purpose  
This is an advanced course designed to provide detailed information on leading -edge  approaches to 
managing  enterprises for effectiveness in the Anthropocene Epoch . The Anthropocene is a  time of 
unprecedented human impact on the environment. Using sustainability theory and indicators, the course 
will familiarize participants with new macro approaches to managing and evaluating econom ies. It will 
also familiarize participants with new  micro approaches researchers and practition ers have developed to 
manage  multi -national corporations and other organizations (and with related forms of evaluation  and 
reporting that reflect the complexity of the new approaches ). We will apply  Stakeholder theory, triple 
bottom line models , and other conceptual frameworks based on environmental sustainability. These 
intellectual tools are useful in understanding , constructing, and apprais ing the effectiveness of  a variety of  
contemporary macro and micro organizations .     
In the first part of the course, we will introduce participants to the  theme of the  Anthropocene  Epoch , to 
the global environmental problems that define th is epoch , to the need for more radical and innovative  
approaches to planetary stewardship, and to important macro issues involved in managing econom ies for 
sustainability. In the second part of the course, we will make the case that effective management of global 
businesses and other organizations  depends on broad concepts of perform ance focused on sustainability, 
rigorous evaluation frameworks , and valid measurement criteria , including metrics  for science -based 
targets . In discussing  speci fic approaches to evaluating  progress toward  targets , we will examine some of 
the genuine and less genuine responses corporations and other organizations are making to the imperative 
of environmental sustainability .  
The central  concept in the course is sustainability, which refers to high , long run  effectiveness of 
institutions and organization s in three domains of im pact: economic, social  and environmental. We will 
elaborate the concept of sustainability by discussing  institutional and organizational effectiveness using 
measurement criteria in such areas as risk management, financial return,  cost containment, ethics, 
diversity, equity  and inclusion , governance  and transparency, business relationships,  employment 
practices, community involvement and economic development, quality of work life, the real costs  of 
products and services , and especially  protection and restoration of the natural environment. We will give 
special attention to the natural environment in this course because the relevant issues are so urgent .     
Sustainability -centric  evaluation  of institutions and organizations  is a relatively new development.  It 
reflects the rapid changes occurring in the world s of business  and government as well as in economics , 
management,  and other areas of academic thought .  We will rely on an overarching philosophical 
framework , key theor etical concepts , current business research, and select case studies of  prominent 
global and local organizations .  However, much of the material in this field is at the leading  edge of 
organizational research and management  practice . Accordingly, we will conduct  the course as an 
advanced seminar  requir ing high quality research,  detailed reading , and radical thinking . For pedagogical 
reasons, we will be experimenting with  some  different approaches to sharing  the content (a combination 
of asynchronous and synchronous online  modalities) so carefully review the syllabus  and be prepared to 
monitor and adjust to changes throughout the semester.  Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems 
Management 4 743-001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Two  
Learning O utcomes and Global Citizenship Project Objectives  
If the course is successful, you will be able to : 
Demonstrate understanding of major global environmental issues in the Anthropocene E poch  and
the impact of multinational corporations and othe r global organizations on the environment
(Cognitive Domain -Knowledge);
Compare and contrast the single ‘bottom line’ approach to assessing institutions and
organizations with more comprehensive frameworks and broader concepts in analyzing
effectiveness and fitness for the global  competitive future (Cognitive Domain —Analysis) ;
Create  new insights by conducting original research on existing institutions and organizations
using s ustainability indicators and criteria (Cognitive Domain —Synthesis);
Through structured opportunities for reflection and exposure to diverse value systems and
worldviews, build greater self -awareness when it comes to humanity’s role in producing global
environmental problems and resulting personal and professional responsibilities
(Affective/Conative Domain —Self-Awareness);
Defend your willingness to express personal and professional concern for other people and the
environment in settings where self -interest is often expected (Affective/Conative Domain —
Willingness) ;
Apply t heory and research  (including case studies ) to learn methods of practice aimed at
improving corporate environmental ism and related financial and environmental consequences
(Affec tive/Conative Domain —Practice).
This course does not have a prerequisite but the concepts and reading material will be more useful to you 
if you have some background in environmental studies, soc ial science, and organizational research and 
management th eory.  You should also have some academic background in group dynamics and teamwork, 
which would  normally  be satisfied with a basic course in Organizational Behavior.  It is important that 
you realize this is an advanced course and that it will require extensive  reading and class involv ement.  
Course Readings  [Books below are referred to on pp. 7 -13 of the Syllabus using initials (e.g., BL]. 
John A. Math ews (2017).  Global Green Shift:  When Ceres Meets Gaia .  New York:  Anthem Press . 
(GGS ).  [ISBN:  1 783086408 ]. (Required ): Free for you through Tex tbook Affordability Project.  Use : 
https://ebplus.lib.usf.edu/students/?course_id=MAN4743.001S23&semesterName=Spring -2023   
[3 Chapters ] 
Guy Pearse (2014). The Greenwash Effect . New York:  Skyhorse Publishing.  (TGE ).  [ISBN : 978-1-
62873 -726-4].  (Recommended ). [2 Chapters, Provided via PDF].    
Ray C. Anderson  (2010). Business Lessons from a Radical Industrialist .  New York:  St. Martin’s Press.   
(BL).  [ISBN:  978 -0-312-54455 -3].  [11 Chapters] .   
Thomas L. Friedman  (2009).  Hot, Flat, and Crowded —Why We Need a Green Revolution and How It 
Can Renew America. Release 2.0 . New York: Picador/Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2009 . (HFC ).  [ISBN:  
0-312-42892 -8]. (Required ). To Avoid Confusion in Reading Assignments, Make Sure You Purchase 
Release 2.0 , the 2009 Edition ).  [4 Chapters]  
In addition to assignments from the book s listed above, selected articles, book chapters and other readings 
will be available through USF’s Canvas  website in the “Articles and Book Chapters”  folder .  We list 
the readings for each class date below. If the reading is not available in the Articles and Book Chapters 
folder, see Syllabus for a listing of a URL for the piece.  Please read the assigned material prior to the 
class f or which we list it (see pp. 7-13). You can purchase GGS , TGE  (Recommended) , BL and HFC  in 
print or as  e-book s. Exams this semester are likely to be closed books and notes.   Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems 
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Three  
Attendance Policy, Grading Scale , and Basis for Grades  
For this class, we will not require physi cal attendance in the classroom with the possible exception of the 
midterm an d final exam class days. We will announce requirements for physical attendance well in 
advance of the date. Attendance and full participation will be expected for any classes held synchronously 
online. 
Your  final grade  will be computed as a weighted average of three inputs:  (1) a midterm exam, composed 
of multiple -choice, short answer and short essay questions ; (2) a second  exam  composed of multiple -
choice, short answer and short essay questions;  and (3) timely and successful completion of any number 
of the 10 optional written assignments . Exams will cover all required readings and all other class material  
but nothing labelled “Optional Advanced Reading.”  
Each exam will be weighted at 50% of your overall grade unless you elect to do any of the optional 
assignments . Each optional assignment has a n opening date (with instructions) , a due date, and a  weight 
associated with it . You can reduce the weighting  of the midterm exam to 35% o f your overall grade  and 
the weighting of the second exam to 35% of your overall grade  by electing to do ALL of the optional 
written assignments . That is, you can substitute credit up to 30% of your overall grade by electing to do 
all written assignments. Alternatively, y ou may choose any number of the written assignments, thereby 
substituting assignment credit for exam credit. To illustrate, the 10th assignment requires you to upload a 
video and written summary of one chapter from Business Lessons  (you will be randomly as signed a 
chapter), which can be used to account for 5% of your final grade. With this decision, your performance 
on Exam II would then account for 45% of your total grade  (not 50%) and your performance on the  10th 
assignment would account for 5% of your ov erall final grade. Similarly,  if you chose to do only the 5th 
assignment  (the Green Technological I nnovation Essay, which is weighted at 3.5% ), Exam I would then 
account for 46.5% of your final grade.  
It is important that you be fully prepared for exams (on the readings and other material) and for any 
discussion boards or other forms of interaction. Naturally, t he most credit is given for sharing  studied  
interpretations of the assigned material and informed opinions . Usually, very little credit can be given 
for opinions expressed off the top of one’s head or without the benefit of careful study of the material. 
Assuming class members earn the group bonus , grading will follow this scale:  
Grading Scale (%)  
99-100 A+ 74-76 C+ 
90-98 A 70-73 C 
87-89 A- 67-69 C- 
84-86 B+ 64-66 D+ 
80-83 B 60-63 D 
77-79 B- 0 - 59 F 
We will return the r esults of g raded tests and other materials for the first half of this course during the 
ninth week of the semester .  At that time, y ou will receive detailed feedback on your exam , optional 
assignments , and overall performance .  
Importance of Syllabus  
Please follow the syllabus carefully to be prepared for lectures, discussions, assignments,  exams and 
relevant deadlines.   The professor will not be able to take time to explain items and procedures that are 
already covered in the syllabus.  Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems 
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Four  
Winter 2023  COVID -19 Protocols  
For details:  See https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
Canvas  and Online Sources  
We will post all course material, syllabi, ins tructions, assignments, and related communications on 
Canvas. USF expects each student to engage fully with the course and with all course content posted 
on Canvas . Recorded classes are copyrighted and must not  be shared with any third parties.    
Also, t he more knowledgeable about environmental issues you are the higher the quality of your 
presentations in the class will be.  Therefore, it is strongly suggested that you subscribe to two free, 
independent news digests and stay current with what they publis h:  Daily Grist and Truthout .  Each 
digest will email you customized information on the environment nearly daily based on your preferences 
and interests.  For Grist , go to www.grist.org , click on “Follow” in the upper right of the webpage, and 
provide your email address. For Truthout , go to www.truthout.org , scroll to the bottom of the webpage 
and subscribe.  S ome custom ization of what you receive from both sources is possible.   
Disruption of the Academic Process  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. USF defines d isruption of the 
academic process as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic 
environment which in the reasonable estimation of the professor  (a) directs attention away from the 
academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disres pectful or abusive interruption of 
lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the 
health, safety, or well -being of self or other persons.  
USF prohibits m isconduct on the premises of all campuses  of the USF System .  USF defines misconduct 
as any behavior that adversely affects the University community and/or the pursuit of its mission.  This 
applies directly to the classroom, including virtual classroom meetings.  Please acquaint yoursel f with: 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation -usf3.025.pdf  
Group Work Policy  
Everyone  may be required to  participate fully  in group presentations and other exercises in the class . 
Extra Credit, Rewrites, and Late Work Policies  
Over the course of the semester, there will be numerous opportunities to demonstrate mastery of the 
material. You will be able to contribute to the course in ways that establish a grade reflecting high 
achieveme nt.  Therefore, we will not offer much (if any) extra credit and we will not authorize rewrites or 
permit late work  or additional work once grades are determined .     
Policy on Incomplete Gra des 
An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be assigned to a student only when a small 
portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing 
grade. We will give an incomplete grade only after ful l discussion of the relevant issues with the professor 
and only if the circumstances a student is facing are considered serious enough to compromise the 
student’s performance in the class markedly.   Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Five  
Academic Fraud and Integrity of Students  
USF defines and discusses Academic dishonesty in the University’s Undergraduate Catalogue (see Pages 
44-46 or see www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0001/ADADAP.HTM).  Academic dishonesty of any type will 
result in, at a minimum, an “F” for the assignment and may, depending upon seriousness, result in an “F” 
for the course  and dismissal from the University . We cannot tolerate academic fraud, be it cheating, 
plagiarism, or any oth er form of dishonesty. Academic fraud interferes with open and honest exchange in 
the classroom. Because of this, we must work diligently to deter academic fraud.  
Turnitin Policies and Plagiarism Checks  
Submitting assignments to the SafeAssign Global R eference Database allows your paper to be checked 
for plagiarism against papers from USF and other institutions . This ensures and protect s the originality of 
your work . Turnitin also checks your written work for plagiarism against all published sources and  
internet sources.  Become familiar with plagiarism restrictions and norms and be very careful to cite 
properly any sources you use in formulating your answers . If you incorporate exact words from another 
source or person into your own writing, be sure to use quotation  marks c orrectly  and appropriately . It is 
very important that you neither accidentally nor intentionally plagiarize any other source because this will 
result in serious academic consequences.   
No Unauthorized Personnel Allowed in Virtual Cla ssroom  
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/proposed -regulation -usf4.0140 -trespassing -loitering -
revised -021111.pdf prohibits other than registered students and invited guests from being present in the 
physical and virtual classrooms.   
Students with Disabilities  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations.  SDS encourages students to notify instructors of needs for 
accommodation at least 30 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must 
accompany this request.  
Studen t Academic Grievance Procedures  
USF has procedures in place for students with academic grievances.  These can be found at  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
Gender -Based Crimes  
Educators must report incidents of gender -based crimes including sexual assault, sexual harassme nt, 
stalking, dating violence and domestic violence. If a student discloses in class, in papers, or to an 
instructor, the instructor is required by law to report the disclosure. The  Center for Victim Advocacy and 
Violence Prevention  (813-974-5757) is a confidential resource where you can talk about such situations 
and receive assistance in confidence. Additional confidential resources on campus are: the Counseling 
Center  (813-974-2831) and  Student Health Services  (813-974-2331).  
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in secu ring a stable place to live and/or in affording 
sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance in classes. Students 
with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their website), or Studen t 
Outreach and Support (socat@usf.edu or their website).   Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Six  
 
Availability of Internships  
 
For students interested in internships, please see the following website:   
www.usf.edu/business/student -success/internships/  
 
Statement of Academic Continuity  
 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this 
time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are not limited 
to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an altern ate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to 
monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific communication, and the USF, College, and 
Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF  messages for important general information ( USF Policy 
6-010). 
For other relevant USF Core Policy Statements, se e  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Seven  
 
Discussion Topics and Reading Assignments  (See “Questions to Guide Your Reading ,” on Canvas)   
 
Introduction to Course and to Key Problems in the Anthropocene  Epoch  
 
(1) M 1/9 Introduction --Response of Business  to Global Environmental Problems   
 Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier   
 BL:  Forward; Prologue; Chapter 14 , “Awakening the Mind and Spirit .”  
  **Gabrielle Schwarz (2022) , The Guardian , “It Was Like An Apocalyptic Movie: 20  
  Climate Photographs that Changed the World.”   (Optional Advanced Reading)   
  www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/nov/05/20 -climate -photographs -that-               
  changed -the-world [Use this URL or google the website].   
  **World Wildlife Fund:  Living Planet Report, 20 22 (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  https://livingplanet.panda.org/en -US/   
  **World Economic Forum:  The Global Risks Report, 2022  (Optional Reading)  
   
(1) W 1/11 Introduction to the Anthropocene E poch   
 Friday, 1/13, 2:00 -2:30 p.m., Optional Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr. 
Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas)  
 **Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature .”  Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to 
Thriving in the  Age of Accelerations .  New York:  Farrar, Straus & Giroux.  Pp. 157 -184. 
**Will Steffen et al. (2018), PNAS , “Trajectories of the Earth System in the 
Anthropocene.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
Video 1:  Arlind Boshnjaku, Welcome to the Anthropocene  
Video 2:  Will Steffen, The Anthropocene  
 
(2) M 1/16 Martin Luther King Holiday, No Class  
 
(2) W 1/18 Reading Day, No Class (Catch Up if Necessary and Read Ahead for Weeks 3 and 4)  
 
(3) M 1/23 Key Problems  in the Anthropocene Epoch: Climate Change  I--Basic Issues   
 Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier  
 **Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.”  Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to 
Thriving in the Age of Accelerations .  New York:  Farrar, Straus & Giroux.  Pp. 157 -184. 
 **Kieran Mulvaney (2022), National Geographic , “It’s Now or Never:  UN Climate 
Report’s 4 Urgent Takeaways.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 **Jake Johnson (2022), Common Dreams , “Naomi Klein Calls for a ‘True People’s 
Summit’ in Wake of COP27 Failure.” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 3:  Bill Nye, Climate 101  
 Video 4:  C-SPAN, Snowball in the Senate  
 
(3) W 1/25 Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch:  Climate Change  II--Advanced Issues   
 Pre-Recorded  Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier  
 **Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.”  Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to 
Thriving in the Age of Accelerations .  New York:  Farrar, Straus & Giroux.  Pp. 157 -184. 
 BL:  Chapter 13, “Science and Skeptics.”   
 **David Wallace -Wells (2019), New York Times , “Time to Panic.”  (Optional Advanced  
 Reading)  
 **Lina Tran & Joseph Winters (2022), Grist , “’We Are at a Crossroads’:  New IPCC 
Report Says I t’s Fossil Fuels or Our Future.” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 5:  Skeptical Science, Arctic Sea Ice --Minimum Volumes   
 Video 6:  HHMI BioInteractive, The Science of Climate Change  
 **Assignment  1:  Write 250 Word Quiz on Metaphor of the Bull Moose on the Trail . 
Upload to Canvas  no later than 4:00 p.m., 1/25/23.  See Details on Canvas 1/21/23.  Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems   
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Eight  
 
(4) M 1/30 Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch:  Feedback Loops, Tipping Points and  
  Abrupt Environmental Change  
  Online Material, “Hothouse Earth,” No Recorded Class  
  **Assignment  2:  Write 300 Word Summary of Main Ideas  in Podcast; Upload to  
  Canvas  no later than  4:00 p.m., 2/1/23.  See Details on Canvas 1/27/2 3.  
       
(4) W 2/1 Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch:  Feedback Loops, Tipping Points and  
  Abrupt Environmental Change  
  Pre-Recorded  Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier  
  BL:  Chapter 13, “Science and Skeptics.”  
  **Jon Queally (2019), Common Dreams , “Climate Tipping Points Could Hit Harder — 
  and Sooner —Than We Think .”   
  **Matthew Rozsa (2021), Salon Magazine , “CO2 Levels Reach 3.6 Million -Year High.”   
  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Maureen Dowd (2021), New York Times , “Apocalypse Right Now.”  (Optional  
  Advanced Reading).  
  **Eve Andrews (2020), Daily Grist , “Will I Be Able to Tell When We’ve Reached a  
  Climate Tipping Point? ” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Jonathan Watts (2019), Daily Grist , “Biodiversity Crisis Is About to Put Humanity at  
  Risk, U N Scientists Warn.  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Kate Yoder (2019), Daily Grist , “Climate Crisis. ” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 **Eric Holthaus (2018), Daily Grist,  “Terrified by ‘Hothouse Earth’? Don’t Despair —
 Do Something.” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 **Skeptical Science (2022), “Nine ‘Tipping Points that Could Be Triggered by Climate 
 Change.”  https://skepticalscience.com/nine -climate -tipping -points.html   (Optional  
 Advanced Reading)  
 Video 7:  United Nations, Scientists Explain Tipping Points  
   
(5) M 2/6 Key Problems in the Anthropocene E poch : Biodiversity Loss and Species Extinction  
 HFC :  Chapter 8, “The Age of Noah.”   
**Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.”  Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to 
Thriving in the Age of Accelerations .  New York:  Farrar, Straus & Giroux.  Pp. 157 -184. 
**Brandon Keim (2019), Nautilus Magazine,  “Never Underestimate the Intelligence of 
Trees.”  
**Kate Galbraith (2016), San Francisco Chronicle,  “Review of The Hidden Life of 
Trees .”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Damian Carrington (2018), The Guardian , “What Is Biodiversity and Why Does It 
Matter to Us?  https://www.theguardian.com/news/2018/mar/12/what -is-biodiversity -
and-why-does-it-matter -to-us  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Ecosystem Services https://www.khanacademy.org/science/biology/biodiversity -and-
conservation/ecosystems -ecosystem -services/v/ecosystem -services  (Optional Advanced 
Video)  
Video 8:  World Wildlife Fund, What Is Biodiversity?    
Video 9:  Arizona State University, Why Is Biodiversity So Important?  
 **Assignment  3:  Write a 500 Word  Reflection Paper on the Intelligence of Trees ;   
Upload to Canvas no later than  4:00 p.m., 2/8/23.  See Details on Canvas 2/2/2 3).     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Nine  
 
(5) W 2/8  Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch:  Synthetic Chemical Pollution  
  **Damian Carrington (2022), The Guardian , “Chemical Pollution Has Passed Safe Limit  
  for Humanity, say Scientists”  
  **Tom Perkins (2022), The Guardian , “New US Lawsuit Targets ‘Forever Chemicals’ in 
  Plastic Food Containers.”   
  **Kristen Wartman (2011), Daily Grist , “Are You Enjoying Your Daily Chemical  
  Cocktail?  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Andreas Kortenkamp & Michael Faust (2018), Science , “Regulate to Reduce Chemical 
Mixture Risk.” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Erin McCormick et al. (2019), The Guardian , “Americans’ Plastic Recycling Is  
Dumped in Landfills, Investigation Shows.”  
  **Damian Carrington (2020), The Guardian , “Microplastics Now Discoverable in  
  Human  Organs.” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Mike Snider (2022), USA Today , “Microplastics Have Been Found in Air, Food, and  
  now… Human Blood.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)    
  **Tim Dickinson (2020), Rolling Stone Magazine , “How Big Oil and Big Soda Kept a  
  Global Environmental Calamity a Sec ret for Decades” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Jim Morris & Lauren Barryman (2021), Truthout/Public Health Watch , “Toxic  
  chemicals linked to childhood cancer.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  **Erin Brockovich (2021), The Guardian , “Plummeting Sperm Counts, Shrinking  
  Penises: Toxic [Forever] Chemicals Threaten Humanity .” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  Video 1 0:  Rob Billot, Dark Waters —Official Trailer   
  Video 11:  Craig Leeson & Tanya Streeter, A Plastic Ocean —Official Trailer  
  Video 1 2:  Environmental Defense, Slow Death by Rubber Duck   
 
Managing the Economy for Sustainability in the Anthropocene E poch  
 
(6) M 2/13 Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene E poch :  What is  Sustainability and Why 
Should We Care?  
Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier   
**Thomas Prugh & Erik Assadourian (2003).  “What is Sustainability, Anyway?”  World 
Watch Magazine , Sept. -Oct. 
**GGS :  Chapter 1, “Introduction to the Global Green Shift.”  (Optional Advanced 
 Reading)  
Video 13:  Roman Krznaric, How to Be A Good Ancestor  
**Assignment  4:  Calculate your personal ecological footprint and discuss details of   
 your major sources of pollution in approximately 250 words . Upload your statement  
 to Canvas  no later than 4:00 p.m ., 2/15/23.  See Details on Canvas 2/10/2 3.   
 
(6) W 2/15 Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene E poch:  Comprehensive Planning   
 Friday , 2/17, 2:00 -2:30 p.m., Optional  Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr. 
Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas)  
 HFC : Chapter 10, “Green is the New Red, White and Blue.”   
GGS :  Chapter 11, “Energy that is Clean, Cheap, Abundant —and Safe.”  (Optional 
Advanced Reading)  
Video 1 4:  Leonardo DiCaprio, UN Messenger of Peace —Be Prepared to Discuss  Mass 
Movement Devoted to “System Change, Not Climate Change” Using Tom Friedman’s 
Model of a Clean Energy System (HFC , Ch. 10) and L. DiCaprio’s Thesis Articulated in 
His UN Speech  
 
 
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Ten  
 
(7) M 2/20 Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene  Epoch:  Technology and Innovation  
Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier   
HFC :  Chapter 11. “205 Easy Ways to Save the Earth.”   
**Stephen Pacala & Robert Socolow (2004).  Science , “Stabilization Wedges :  Solving 
the Climate Problem for the Next 50 Years with Current Technologies .” (Optional 
Advanced Reading)  
**Clive Thompson (2021), Mother Jones , “Is Sucking Carbon Out of the Air the  Solution 
to Our Climate Crisis ?”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Kelsey Piper (2022), Vox. “AI Experts Are Increasingly Afraid of What They’re 
Creating.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
https://www.vox.com/the -highlight/23447596/artificial -intelligence -agi-openai -gpt3-
existential -risk-human -extinction  [Use this URL or google the website].   
Video 1 5:  Scott Brusaw, Solar FREAKIN’ Roadways ! 
Video 1 6: United Nations, A Technofix for the Climate?  Atmospheric Geo-Engineering  
**Assignment 5:  Write 300 Word Essay on a Recent,  Green Technological 
Innovation. Use Sign Up Sheet to Select a Unique Technology  No Other Student Has 
Selected . Upload to Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m., 2/2 2/23. See Details on Canvas 
2/10/23.  
 
(7) W 2/22 Solutions to Problems in the  Anthropocene Epoch: Government  (U.S., China , India ) 
  Friday, 2/24, 2:00 -2:30 p.m., Optional Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr .  
  Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas)   
  HFC:   Chapter 14.  “If It Isn’t Boring, It Isn’t Green .”  
**Damian Carrington (2021), The Guardian , “Fossil Fuel Industry Gets Subsidies of $11 
Million a Minute, IMF Find s.”  
GGS :  Chapter 5, “No Wonder China and India Are Pursuing Green Growth Strategies So 
Vigorously.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
HFC :  Chapter 17. “Can Red China Become Green China?” (Optional Advanced Read)  
**Bill Spindle (2022 ), New York Review of Books , “On the Grid in Leisang”(Greening 
India). (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Antoine Dechezlepretre et al. (2019 ), International Review of Environmental and 
Resource Economics , “Do Environmental and Economic Performance Go Together? ” 
(Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Daniel Ross (2019), Truthout , “’Green Amendment’ Movement Demands State 
Constitutional Right to Clean Environment.”  (Optional Advanced Reading).  
  **Guillaume Chapron et al. (2019), Science Magazine , “A Rights Revolution for 
Nature.” (Optional Advanced Reading).  
 **Dominic Dudley (2019), Forbes Magazine , “China Is Set to Become the World’s 
Renewable Energy Superpower.” (Optional Advanced Reading).  
  **Angelique Chrisafis (2021), The Guardian , “That’s a Wrap:  French Plast ic Packaging  
  Ban for Fruit and Veg Begins.”  (Optional Advanced Reading).  
  **Joseph Winters (2022), Grist , “California Passes Nation’s Toughest Plastic Reduction  
  Bill.” (Optional Advanced Reading).     
  Video 17:  United Nations, What Is the Paris Agreement?    
  Video 18:  WION Climate Tracker, Gabon —World’s Second Most Forested Nations  
  Pushes for Sustainable Logging.  (Optional Advanced Video)   
   
(8) M 2/27 No Class  
 
(8) F 3/3 Exam I  (1:00 p.m. -2:30 p.m. Eastern Time  Zone —Tampa, Florida)  
  Your Take Home Essay Questions Are Due Before 1:00 p.m. , 3/3/23  
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Eleven  
 
Managing Firms for Sustainability in the Anthropocene E poch   
 
(9) M 3/6 Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene E poch:  Activist Corporations  
 Pre-Recorded  Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier  
**David Lubin & Daniel Esty (2010), Harvard Business Review , “The Sustainability 
Imperative.” Pp. 1 -4, 8-9.  
**Kate Yoder (2022), Grist , “What’s Wrong with the Economy?  Climate Change, for 
One.”   (Optional Advanced Reading)  
**Michael Lenox & Aaron Chatterji (2018), Can Business Save the Earth?  Innovating 
Our Way to Sustainability . Chapter 1, “Business as Savior.”  (Optional Advanced 
Reading).  
**Leslie P. Norton (2021), Barron’s,  “Corporations Are the New Activists after Capitol 
Riot.”  (Optional Advanced Reading).   
**Jennifer Lewington (2022), Corporate Knights , “Should Corporations Be Activists?” 
(Optional Advanced Reading).   
**Mark  Hillsdon (2022), Reuter’s , “How Employees Are Taking Companies to Task 
over Climate Change.”  (Optional Advanced Reading).   
**We Mean Business Coalition  (2022). “Leading Companies Are Going All In and 
Seizing the Opportunity of Climate Action.” (Optional Advanced Reading).  
https://www.wemeanbusinesscoalition.org/business/   (Optional Advanced Reading).  
**Justin Worland (2022), Time Magazine , “Planet Earth’s Future Now Rests in the  
Hands of Big Business.”  (Optional Advanced Reading) .  
Video 19:  CNBC, Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff and the New Capitalism  
Video 20:  World Wildlife Fund, Our Planet…Too Big to Fail —Institutions and Business  
(Optional Advanced Video)  
   
 (9) W 3/8 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Manufacturing Doubt  
 Friday, 3/10, 2:00 -2:30 p.m., Optional Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr. 
Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas )   
 **David Michaels (2005). Scientific American , “Doubt Is Their Product.”  
 Video 21:  Naomi Oreskes & Erik Conway , Merchants of Doubt (Official Trailer)   
 **Assignment 6:   Write 250 Word  Quiz on Manufacturing Doubt; Upload to  
Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m.,  3/8/23.  See Details on Canvas 3/4/2 3.    
 
(10) M 3/13 Winter/Spring Break, No Class  
 
(10) W 3/15  Winter/Spring Break, No Class  
 
(11) M 3/20 Responses to the Sustainability Im perative:  The Greenwash Effect  
 Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier   
 **David Gelles (2015), New York Times , “Social Responsibility that Rubs Right Off.”   
 TGE:   “Introduction,” “Conclusion.”     
 **Katie Jahns (2022), CNBC , The Environment Is Gen Z’s No. 1 Concern —And Some 
Companies Are Taking Advantage of That  
 **Joseph Winters (2022), Grist , “Beyond Greenwashing:  How Chain Restaurants Could 
Actually Address Their Climate Pollution” (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 **Joseph Winters (2022), Grist , “With ‘Real Zero,’ NextEra Pushes Back Against 
Deceptive Carbon Offsets.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 22:  Greenwashing Satire (Blurry)  
 Video 23:  CBC Marketplace, Greenwashing —Busting Eco -Labels (First 2 Minutes and 
7:00-8:40)   
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page Twelve  
 
(11) W 3/22 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: The United Nations Global Compact   
 Friday, 3/24, 2:00 p.m., Optional Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr. 
Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas)  
 **The Earth Charter’s Preamble and Principles (2018).  (Use it to construct your vision 
of environmental sustainability).   
 **Andreas Ra sche (2009), Business & Society , “’A Necessary Supplement’:  What the 
United Nations Global Compact Is and Is Not.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 24:  United Nations, 21 Years of the UN Global Compact Uniting Business for a 
Better World  
 Video 25:  Georg Kell (UNGC), Business in Society (Watch from 2:30 minute mark to 
about 5:30 minute mark for details on Communication on Progress)   
  
(12) M 3/27 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Th e Sustainable Development Goals, 
Science Based Targets , and the Global Reporting Initiative  
 Pre-Recorded  Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier   
  **Victor Chan (2021), Ernst & Young Online , “Why There is an Urgent Need for Global 
Sustainability Standards.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 **Mike Scott (2022), Reuters.com , “’Writing on the wall’ for US companies with SEC’s 
Tough New Rules on Reporting Climate Risk.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 26:  World Business Council, CEO Guide to the Sustainable Development Goals  
 Video 27:  Science Based Targets Initiative, Science Based Targets   
 Video 2 8:  Moneyball, Science vs. the Scouts  
 Video 29 :  GRI  Secretariat, The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard s 
 Video 30:  Global Reporting.org , Our Vision for the Future of Reporting  
 
(12) W 3/29 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Case Study of Walmart and 
Sustainability Reporting  
 Pre-Recorded Presentation(s) by Dr. Jermier  
 Laura Close (2018), Boss Magazine , “Walmart Sustainability at All -Time High.”    
 Video 3 1:  Walmart, Project Gigaton 101  
 **Assignment 7:   Write 300 Word Paper on Walmart’s Programs with Science 
Based Targets and The Credibility of Their ESG  Reporting  (2022) . Upload to  
Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m.,  3/29/23.  See Details on Canvas 3/24/23  
 
(13) M 4/3 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative --Case Study of Patagonia, Inc.  
 ** Interview with Yvon Chouinard , Patagonia  Founder and CEO  
 **Assignment 8:   Write 500 Word Paper Summarizing Key Points in the Patagonia  
Video and Assessing Their Sustainability Website —Footprint Chronicles.  Upload 
to Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m., 4/5/23.  See Details on C anvas  3/31/23    
 
(13) W 4/5  Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Metaphors for Change (Case Study of 
Interface Carpets, Part 1)  
 Friday, 4/7, 2:00 -2:30 p.m., Optional Open Class Discussion on This Material with Dr. 
Jermier via Teams  (Log on Through Canvas)  
 BL:  Chapter 1.  “Mission Zero;” Chapter 2: “The Power of One Good Question;”  
 Chapter 4:  “Mountain Climbing.”     
 Video 32:  Interface Carpets, Ray Anderson on Sustainability and History of Interface 
**Assignment 9:  Write 300 Word Quiz on the Image of Mount Sustainability. 
Upload to Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m., 4/ 12/23. See Details on Canvas 4/ 7/23    
 
 
 
 Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems  
Management 4743 -001 
Dr. Jermier, Page T hirteen  
 
(14) M 4/10 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 2 
 BL: Chapter 5, “Zero Waste.”   
 BL: Chapter 6, “Smokestacks and Other Relics.”   
 Video 33:  IndyStar, Subaru Indiana Works As A Zero Waste Landfill Site   
 
(14) W 4/12  Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 3 
BL: Chapter 7. “Plugging into the Sun.”  
BL: Chapter 8. “Round and Round They Go.”   
Dave Paresh  (2020), Yahoo Finance,  “Google Aims to Run  on Carbon -Free Energy by 
2030.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
  Stephen Nellis (2021), Reuters , “Salesforce Acts on Climate, Requiring Suppliers to Set  
  Carbon Goals.”  (Optional Advanced Reading)  
 Video 34:  Interface, Solar Made Carpet  at Bentley  
 Video 35:  Blackbox Film & Media, Welcome to Sodom  
 Video 3 6:  Dell’Orco & Villani, New Titan Textile Recycling Machine  
 
(15) M 4/17 Responses to the Sustainability Imperative:  Case Study of Interface Carpets , Part 4 
 BL:  Chapter 11.  “The Final Ascent.”    
 BL:  “Tomorrow’s Child” (Poem from Chapter 15, pp. 271 -272) 
 Video 3 7:  CBS, The Fascinating World of Biomimicry  
 Video 38:  In the Green, What Nature Can Teach Us about Sustainable Business    
 Interface Carpets and Sustainability Metrics (“Mission Zero”)  
(www.interfaceglobal.com/Sustainability.aspx) (All Groups —Review Website ) 
 
 **Assignment 10:  On March 27, 2023 , you will be randomly assigned a chapter from 
Anderson’s Business Lessons  (5, 6, 7, 8, or 11) and will be asked to prepare a 5 minute 
(maximum) video summary of the chapter’s key points . Record your summary using 
the Rich Content Editor on Canvas, or Zoom , or another MP4 Video Recorder  and 
then upload your completed file on the Canvas Assignment link.  Be sure to introduce 
yourself and your chapte r title at the beginning of your talk. Also, be sure to upload  
separately  the written script you prepare as the basis for your talk.   
 Upload to  Canvas no later than 4:00 p.m. , 4/17/23. See Details on Canvas 3/27/23      
 
(15) F 4/21 Exam II  (1:00 p.m. -2:30 p.m. Eastern Time  Zone —Tampa, Florida )  
 Your Take Home Essay Questions Are Due Before 1:00 p.m.  on 4/21/2 023 
 
(16) M 4/24 Reading Day, No Class   
 
(16) W 4/26 Reading Day, No Class  
 
(17) M 5/1 No Class  
 
(17) W 5/3 No Class  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 