1  ISM 3113: Systems  Analysis and Design  
 
 Course  Objectives:   
 
Description as stated in Course Catalogue : This course is designed to familiarize students with basic 
techniques for conducting and managing Systems Analysis and Design (SAD) activities such as systems 
analysis and design approaches, implementation methods, current analysis and design issues. This course also 
teaches the tools needed to  analyze existing business problems and design creative and innovative information 
system solutions.  
 
Prerequisite: ISM 3011 with a minimum grade of C  
 
(Learning Outcomes ) Upon completion of this course, students should know how to : 
• Describe a systems development life cycle  
• Determine requirements of an IS using information gathering techniques.  
• Conduct a feasibility analysis for development of an IS to assess:(operational, technical, schedule, 
economic, legal/contractual, political).  
• Create a Use Case Description to describe system functionality  
• Describe sy stem processes using Process Modeling ( Data Flow Diagrams ) 
• Model system data created and/or stored by an IS  
• Manage the modeled data for reporting and analytics  
• Recognize principles of user interface design  
• Describe how to manage implementation and the programming process  
• Generate a migration plan to transition to a new system.  
 
 Course  Materials  and Assignments :  
 
Free Textbooks  Posted in Canvas : 
1. System Acquisition, Integration, and Implementation for Engineers and IT Professionals , 2nd Ed., Hyman,  
2015 . ISBN: 978 -0-9862194 -4-3.  
2. Thinking in Systems , Donella Meadows . 
 
Optional Course Textbook Available for Purchase  
3. Systems Analysis & Design , 6th Ed., Dennis, Wixom, and Roth, 2015. ISBN: 9781118897843 . 
 
Recommended for Personal Development : 
4. Agile Software Requirements , Leffingwell, 2011, ISBN: 978 -0-321-63584 -6. 
5. IT Managers Handbook , Holtsnider and Jaffe  
6. Mythical Man Month , Fred Brooks  
7. Peopleware , Tom Demarco and Timothy Lister   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 2   
 
    
Team -Based Assignments : 
• System Develo pment and Implementation Plan  (delivered in six (6) parts).  
• Case Studies (total of ( 4) four).  
• Team Formation – Teams have been set by random assignment : 
o Teams have either 3 or  4 members. One member has been randomly assigned a s team lead.  
o Each t eam must choose a name and a motto  by the end of week 1 . Your team name should be your 
“brand.”  Your team motto should reflect what you wish to accomplish during t his semester.  
o The team lead will be responsible for delivering your products and for coordinating team meetings 
and member tasks.  
o Team must meet  in person  with a weekly report to the instructor.  Report contains who attended, time 
started/ended, tasks assi gned to whom  for next week, tasks completed from whom from last week.  
 Individual Assignments:  
• Textbook Reading Chapters.  
• Team Member Rating , 360 feedback.  
• Computer software installation and use ( MS Visio, MS Project, Wireframes)  
 
 Grading:   
 
 
Grading Rubric : Expectations (How your work will be judged):  
 
• This course is designed to introduce you to the rigor of analysis and design,  and the documentation process 
associated with it, as applied to the application of IS and IT to business . As such, you will be assessed based 
on quality of your work, thoroughness in your treatment of the subject matter, presentation, and content.  
• I have one standard that I use to judge your work: Would Muma College of Business  be embarrassed that 
you took this to your job interview?  
• To give you some guidance for what I consider to be acc eptable work for university level , I have put together 
a list of items for your review. Every item on this list has been observed by me in at least one RFP, RFI, 
RFQ, or oth er requirements -based document instruction in industry practice. Failure to comply with this list 
of items will result in a rejection of your submission .  
a. Submissions must be typed, using Times New Roman, 12 -point font, with double space.  
b. Every individual  written assignment should have a cover page containing your name, assignment title, 
date and course name. NO OTHER items should be on your cover page.  
c. Every team -based written assignment shall have only one submission  - from the team lead . The cover 
page must identify the team lead and all team members listed in alphabetical order; it must state your 
team name and motto , specific assignment and due date.  No other items should be on your team cover 
page.  
d. Loose pages will not be accepted. Multiple page docu ments must be stapled or bound. No other form 
will be accepted.  
e. Your work must be well orga nized, using headers and titles to divide paragraphs and sections for clarity . 
You may consider the use of a  variety of fonts and colors ( when appropriate ) for presentation.  
f. You must use complete sentences. Use of bullets only when appropriate for content  lists.  
g. I should not be the first set of eyes on your paper: Typos and grammatical errors will count against  you. 
h. Formatting is important. Your work may be 100% correct, but if presented in the wrong format, or 
difficult for the reviewer to read, it might receive negative feedback, up to and including, rejection for 
failure to follow directions.  
i. Your work must be thoughtful and demonstrate thorough thinking through of the  problem as well as your 
proposed method for solving  it.  
j.   Your work must be original.  
k. Your work must be accompanied by a reference list of your sources . APA is standard, but any style is 
accepted as long as it is consistent.  
l. Your work must be easy to read (readability).  3  m. Your work must be clear and to the point. I do not require a minimum amount of content, but you must 
include enough content to demonst rate to me that you have put satisfactory thought and effort into your 
work.  
n. If your submission does not meet the requirements of the assignment or fails to follow directions, it is 
eligible to be awarded zero credit. A 20% penalty, per day, is assessed to  any document qualified for 
resubmission.  
o. I reserve the right to reject ANY assignment submission that I believe does not meet any requirement in 
this list, is not your own work, or fails to meet the standards for competent, university , level work .  
p. Late work  receives a zero grade until submitted. Any late submission will receive a 20% penalty per day 
until submitted. A day is defined as a 24 -hour cycle commencing from the deadline. This means that 
after 5 consecutive days past the deadline, your maximum a llowable score is zero. Eastern Time Zone is 
controlling.  
q. If you fail to join a canvas group, you will not receive a grade for your team’s submissions.  
 
 
 
Grading  scale:  The following table explains the grading formula and final letter grades:  
 
WARNING: There is NO extra credit. There is NO rounding. What you get is what you get. 
You have all the assignments before you. There is no additional work available to you if you 
fail to complete the actual assignments in the syllabus.  
 
Assignments  Total out of 100  
Average of Individual Assignments  x .5 
Average of Team Assignments  {+/- 20% based on 360 peer review } x .5 
Letter Grades   
    A 90.0 with no rounding  
    B 80.0 
    C 70.0 
    D 60.0 
    F < 60.0  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4   
 
COMMUNICATION POLICY and PREFERRED METHODS : I follow a standard business day, which 
means 0800 – 1700. If you choose to contact me through email, the response time will be no later than the close 
of the next business day. This means if you send me an email  at 0800 on Friday, I will respond to that email no 
later than 1700 the next business day, Monday. Keep this in mind when timing your requests and inquiries. I do 
not stand -by on my email server 24/7 waiting for new mail to arrive in my inbox. In fact, I d o not have email 
notifications turned on, I check my email at the start of the business day for whatever arrived during the 
overnight cycle, and then again at the end of the business day for currency . 
 
Learning Outcomes mapped to Course Exercises and Deliv eries :  
 
Learning Outcome  Exercise/Deliverable  
Describe a systems development life cycle  Chapter Discussion Questions  
SDIP: PDR  
 
Determine requirements of an IS using information gathering 
techniques.  SDIP Project: SRR  
Chapter Discussion Questions  
 
Conduct a feasibility analysis for development of an IS to 
assess:(operational, technical, schedule, economic, legal/contractual, 
political).  
 SDIP Project: CDR, IRR  
Chapter Discussion Questions  
Create a Use Case Description to describe system functionality  SDIP Project: PDR and CDR  
 
Describe system processes using Process Modeling (Data Flow 
Diagrams)  SDIP Project PDR and CDR  
Chapter Discussion Questions  
 
Model system data created and/or stored by an IS  SDIP Project : PDR and C DR 
 
Manage the modeled data for reporting and analytics . SDIP Project: SRR, PDR, TRR  
 
Recognize principles of user interface design . SDIP Project: CDR  
 
Describe how to manage implementation and the programming 
process . 
 SDIP Project: CDR, TRR, IRR  
Generate a migration plan to transition to a new system.  SDIP Project: IRR  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5   
University Policies:                          
 
1. Early  Notification  Requirement  for Observed  Religious  Days  - Students  who anticipate  the necessity  
of being  absent  from  class  due to the observation  of a major  religious  observance  must  provide  notice  
of the  date(s)  to the instructor,  in writing,  at the beginning  of the term.  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
2. Academic  Integrity  of Students  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf  
3. Disruption  of the Academic  Process  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAc ademicProcess.pdf  
4. Gender -Based Crimes - Educators must report incidents of gender -based crimes including sexual 
assault,  sexual  harassment,  stalking,  dating  violence  and domestic  violence.  If a student  discloses  in 
class,  in papers,  or to an instructor,  the instructor  is required  by law to report  the disclosure.  
The Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention (813 -974-5757) is a confidential resource 
where  you can talk about  such  situations  and receive  assistance  in confidence.  Additional  confidential 
resources on campus are: the Counseling Center (813 -974-2831) and Student Health Services (813 - 
974-2331).  
5. Student  Academic  Grievance  Procedures  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
6. Students  with Disabilities  - Students  with disabilities  are responsible  for registering  with Students  with 
Disabilities  Services  (SDS)  in order  to receive  academic  accommodations.  SDS encourages  students  to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the 
accommodation.  A letter  from  SDS must  accompany  this request.  
o See student  responsibilities:  http://www.sds.usf.edu  
o See instructor  
responsibilities:     http://www.asasd.usf.edu/instructorresponsibilities.asp?refer=FACULTY  
7. SafeAssign Privacy  policy  
o In order  to comply  with privacy  laws,  students  are not required  to include  personal  identifying 
information, such as your name, in the body of the document. Submitting to the SafeAssign 
Global Reference Database allows papers from other institutions to be checked against your 
paper to protect th e originality of your work across institutions. Please follow your 
instructor's  instructions  carefully  regarding  what  identifying  information  to include.  
o Blackboard  Quick  Reference  Guide  - Submitting  SafeAssignments  
8. University Emergency  Policy  
o In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. 
During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that 
include  but are not limited  to: Blackboard,  Elluminate,  Skype,  and email  messaging  and/o r an 
alternate schedule. It's the responsibility of the student to monitor Blackboard site for each 
class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department 
websites,  emails,  and MoBull  messages  for important  general  information.  
 