Muma College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
 
Decision Processes for Business Continuity and  
Disaster Recovery  (BCDR)  
ISM 6577.021  / ISM 6577. 350 
 
Course Information  
Course Title: Information Security and IT Risk Management  
Course Subject # / Section:  
• ISM 6577  / 021 
• ISM 6577  / 350 
Course Semester: Spring 2023 
Course Credit Hours: 3 
Course Duration: 8 Weeks ( 3/6/23-5/4/23) 
Course Occurrence: Weekly ( Asynchronous)  
Course Meeting Times: Asynchronous (Online)  
Course  Meeting Location: Off Campus (Online)  
 
Instructor Information  
Name: Dr. Marcus L. Green      
Office:  CIS 2070 -A 
Weekly Office Hours : Virtual via M icrosoft Teams; posted via announcement on Canvas   
Office Hours (virtual): By appointment only; meetings will occur using Microsoft Teams  
Phone: (o) 813 -974-6754  
E-mail: mlg5 @usf.edu       
 
 
Course Description  and Objectives  
Course Des cription  
Introduction to decision making and risk assessment skills to plan for and respond 
effectively to disasters affecting our information systems and critical infrastructures with 
the goal of maintaining business continuity .  
 
Course Objectives  
The goal of the course is to introduce decision making and risk assessment skills to 
respond effectively to disasters affecting our critical infrastructure. The course is open to 
students in all majors. Course obje ctives will be accomplished through two categories of 
information – (1) helping students develop quantitative skills and frameworks to make 
decisions and assess risks and (2) apply these skills in the service of protecting critical 
infrastructure.  The cour se will include class discussions and presentations to prepare 
students to develop a business continuity and disaster recovery plan for a selected 
organization.  
 Specifically, the course objectives are:  
 
1. To introduce basic data analysis, probability, and statistical analysis.  
2. To introduce important decision -making frameworks.  
3. To introduce risk assessment frameworks.  
4. To make students aware of common decision impediments while analyzing risks.  
5. To enable students to plan and develop business conti nuity plans for critical 
infrastructures.  
6. To enable students to plan and develop disaster recovery plans for critical 
infrastructures .  
 
Learning Objectives  
Upon completion of the course students will demonstrate the ability to:  
 
1. Students will demonstrate an understanding of basic data analysis, probability, and 
statistical analysis.  
2. Students will demonstrate an understanding of  common decision -making frameworks . 
3. Students will demonstrate an understanding of  common risk -assessment frameworks . 
4. Students will demonstrate an understanding of how  to plan for business continui ty. 
5. Students will demonstrate an understanding of how  to plan for disaster recovery . 
 
Course Material, Literature, and Software  
Textbooks   
Howard Raiffa , Ralph L. Keeney, John S. Hammond, John Hammond, Ralph Keeney, 
Smart Choices: A Practical Guide to Making Better Decisions , (2015) Harvard Business 
Review Press ISBN -13: 978 -1-63369 -105-6, ISBN: 1 -63369 -105-5 
 
David C. Skinner, Introduction to Decision Ana lysis (3rd Edition), (Mar 9, 2009), ISBN -
10: 0964793865, Probabilistic Publishing  
 
Susan Snedaker, Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery Planning for IT Professionals  
(2nd Ed.), (Oct. 8, 2013), Syngress, ISBN -10: 0124105262  
 
Course Logistics and Communication s 
• All email communication sent to me will be through  Canvas messaging  (email) . This 
allows me to repository  all communications th rough canvas as opposed to my normal 
email. Using Canvas messag ing also automatically  adds ou r course information to all 
communications, which al lows me to  quickly identify both student  and course e nrolle d.  
• For all deliverables  requiring email communication, it is required to use Canvas 
messaging  (email ); You will lose credit for not doing s o. 
• For questions about the course content or any assignment, please utilize scheduled office 
hours, or call for an appointment. Y ou can also contact me via email.  
• All work should be completed using professional standards. Assignments will be 
submitted via Canvas and submitted to Turnitin.  Please ensure that you cite any material 
referenced appropriately. If you have any question, p lease do not hesitate to ask for 
clarification or assistance.  • To improve the efficiency and effectiveness in delivering course content, each student 
will be responsible for all items contained or emails sent via Canvas.  
• Late Assignments : There are no make -ups for course deliverables. Assignments turned in 
late will be assessed a penalty: a half -letter grade if it is one day late, or a full -letter grade 
for 2 -7 days late. Assignments will not be accepted if overdue by more  than seven days. 
Deliverables are due by the end of day on the due date (usually this means Sunday 
11:55pm).  
• Re-grade Policy  - All tests and other graded material may be submitted for re -evaluation 
of the grade by the instructor.  To request a re -grade, you must submit a w ritten request 
within one week of the date the test or assignment was returned.  The written request 
must include a cover sheet that explains (1) The specific test questions or aspects of the 
assignment that you want re -evaluated and  (2) Why the original g rade is in error and 
should be reconsidered.  
• In the event of an emergency,  USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through 
methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, MS Teams, Skype, and email 
messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor 
Canvas for each class for cou rse specific communication, and the main USF, College, 
and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general 
information . 
 
Course Grading and Assignment Policies  
Grading Scale  
Letter grades will be awarded according to the percentage  scale below.  
 
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
≥ 97 
≥ 94 
≥ 90 A+ (max 10% of class)* 
A 
A- ≥ 87 
≥ 84 
≥ 80 B+ 
B 
B- ≥ 77 
≥ 74 
≥ 70 C+ 
C 
C- ≥ 67 
≥ 64 
≤ 60 D+ 
D 
F 
*Top 10% At instructor’s discretion  
           
Grade Categories and Weights   
 
Activity  Unit  Weight  Total Weight  
Assessments ( x5) 10% 50% 
Assignments (x2)  10% 20% 
Discussion  10% 10% 
BC/DR Review Assignment  20% 20% 
 
         
Course Assignments Details /Requirements : 
Course assignments consist of 3 projects: mid -term project, regression analysis project, 
and ANOVA project. The projects are worth a maximum of 200 points, 100 points, and 
50 points. Stu dents can begin the projects at their own convenience but must turn -in the 
projects according to the above matrix. At the start of the course , students are provided 
with documents containing project completion instructions. The mid -term project focuses on all subjects taught during the course from weeks 1 -5. The regression project focuses 
on regression analysis. And finally, the ANOVA project focuses on ANOVA concepts.   
 
Students have the option of either completing the projects alone or in groups of up to  
three. Regardless of completion team -status, each student must submit a project via 
Canvas. The submission document will reflect if the student completed the project in a 
group, along with the other group members.    
 
Should you wish to discuss the grading  and points awarded for any assignment your 
professor is happy to accommodate you.  However, you must do so within two weeks of 
the graded assignment being returned to you via Canvas.  If you do not discuss such with 
your professor within the two -week wind ow the professor will assume you are satisfied 
with the grading of the assignment and will consider the points awarded to be final.  After 
the two -week window no discussions of points awarded on an assignment will be 
entertained.  
  
Course Schedule  
Week   Topic   Source   Due/Deadline   
1 Syllabus , Defining 
Decision Problems  Smart Choices, 
Chapters 1 - 6 ProACT Assignment  
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 1  
2 Evaluating Choices  Smart Choices, 
Chapters 7 - 10 Assessment 1  
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 2  
3 Decision Analysis  Dec. Analysis, 
Chapters 2, 4  Assessment 2 
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 3 
4 Decision Modeling & 
Probability  Dec. Analysis, 
Chapters 7  - 8 Assessment 3 
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 4 
5 Simulation , 
Uncertainty and Risk Dec. Analysis, 
Chapters 9 - 11 Simu lation Assignment  
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 5 
6 BCDR  Overview  BCDR, Chapters 1 , 4 Assessment 4 
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 6 
7 Risk Assessment and 
Mitigation Strategies  BCDR, Chapters 5  - 6 NYBOT  Discussion  
Sunday 11:55  pm Wk 7 
8 BCDR Plan Testing 
and Maintenance  BCDR, Cha pters 7  - 9 Assessment 5 
DR Plan Review  
Friday 11:55  pm Wk 7 (Last Day of 
Class)  
 
**In the interests of the class, deviations may be made in the coverage of topics as 
outlined in the tentative course calendar. However, to help plan your calendars for the 
rest of the semester, assessment and deadline dates will be non -negotiable after the first 
day of class.  
**All deliverables are due at the end of day (11:55 PM) Sunday  except as noted on course 
outline . 
     
 
Disaster Re covery Plan Assignment  
1. Review The Executive Summary (pages ES -1 & ES -2), and Chapters 1 and 2 (pages 
1-13) [Note: in Acrobat these are pages 11 -25] of the Contingency Planning Guide 
for Information Technology Systems from the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, 20 10. http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800 -34r1    
2. Review the KPMG Checklist for Business Recovery , in particular the list under 
“Technology/Management”  On Canvas  
Read the m aterial on contingency planning and disaster recovery plans  as well as your 
textbooks  to prepare yourself for this assignment . 
Deliverables:  Paper not to exceed 3000 words.   Please cite any material using MLA style 
if necessary.  
• Part 1:  Describe the process (steps) you would use in any organization to develop 
a Business Continuity and D isaster Recovery plan  
• Part 2:  Critically r eview the DR plan attached here: 
TXA&MITDisasterRecoveryPlan.pdf  .Suggest way s to improve, note any 
missi ng elements, and provide any other suggestions you have for the 
develop ment team.  
 
Online Proc toring of Quizzes   
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms 
and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abid e by and accept all terms. Any student 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  
 
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam ( USB or internal) with a microphone when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permission of any person r esiding in the residence.  
 
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
Students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings 
with their instructor or advisor.  
 
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and 
accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable 
computer and high -speed i nternet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to 
taking the proctored exam. To use Honorlock, students are required to download and 
install the Honorlock Google Chrome extension . For additional information please visit 
the USF online proctor ing student FAQ  and Honorlock student resources . 
 
The following items are  NOT PERMITTED  within quizzes or exams.   
• Referencing any external resources (physical or digital) during the exam other than 
book and notes.  
• Receiving any form of assistance while taking the exam either in person or through a 
digital platform  
• Using any devices  during the exam such as a cell phone  
• Attempting to duplicate, copy, or take screenshots of exam questions or answers   
• Leaving the computer during the exam  
• Manipulating and/or covering the camera during the exam  
 
Violation of these rules will be considered cheating, subject to the sanctions outlined 
within the  USF Policy on Academic Integrity Policy  including an F on the assignment or 
an F in the course.   
 
Extra Credit Policy  
There are no opportunities for extra credit in this course.  Students’ focus should be on 
the primary work in the course.  
 
Medical Issues   
There are certainly cases in which a student legitimately cannot complete course 
assignments for valid medical reasons.  To be excused from course work in such cases 
requires students to furnish a standard note from a health care professional stating care is 
being sought for an ailment or condition which can impede a student’s ability to complete 
course work.  Without such a note an excuse from course work cannot be granted.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete"  
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exc eptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and 
sign the "I" Grade Contract Fo rm that describes the work to be completed, the date it is 
due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete 
assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long 
as it does not exceed two sem esters for undergraduate courses and one semester for 
graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not 
cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate 
courses (including summ er semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Academic Integrity and Academic Misconduct  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s 
commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its unive rsity community. 
Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, 
respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all 
academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative o f one’s own 
efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic 
sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status 
of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the 
independently accredited institution.   The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF 
System Regulation 3.027.   
In our course assignments , the professor has several methods for penalizing those who 
engage in academic misconduct.  Among these methods the professor can 1) award 0 
points for an assignment on which a student has engaged in misconduct, 2) award an F in 
the entire course, or 3) award a special FF grade in the course.  An FF appears 
permanently on the student's transcript as a special designation showing the student faile d 
the course for reasons of academic misconduct.   The FF includes expulsion from the 
University.  
 
Web Posting Course Materials  
Students are reminded that posting course materials to third -party sites such as Course 
Hero or Chegg represents a violation of t he professor’s copyright on those materials and 
constitutes theft of intellectual property.    
 
Disruption to Academic Process  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of 
the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a 
classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectf ul or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, 
or well -being of self or other persons.  
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective 
review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An 
“academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects 
that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or 
has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students.  
 
Attend ance Policy  
Students are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular and on -time attendance 
to class lectures, whether those lectures are offered live or online. Accommodation will 
be made for excused absences by making arrangements with students ahead of time 
(when possible) or by providing a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work .   
 
Group Work Policy:  
Group work is allowable according to the guidance provided earlier in this document.  
 
Final Examinations Policy:  
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination 
policy.  
 
 
 
 Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other 
people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not 
agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. 
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, 
and it is more difficul t to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas 
before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to 
easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t 
see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students between live class 
meetings will be email.  “Blast emails” will occasionally be sent by the instructor to all 
students via Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with questions at any 
time.  Please anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
 
Laptop Usage  
Laptop/T ablet usage is highly encouraged in this course given the nature of the mater ial.  
Students are responsible for making certain their technology is appropriate to the needs of 
the program and is in good working order for class lectures and assignmen ts.   
 
Phone Usage:  
Students are allowed to use devices for recording lectures for their personal use, though 
students must still adhere to classroom behavioral expectations while recording. Students 
attending the in -person lectures are asked to place thei r mobile phones on “silent” and to 
step outside the classroom to take any important calls.  Phones may not be used during 
in-class assignments.  
 
Recordings   
In this class, software will be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a 
student i n this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These 
recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those 
who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would li ke to 
review content that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will 
be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss 
this option with your instructor .   
Canvas  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. 
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in weekly assignments 
and return graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks 
related to this course or othe r courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following 
videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at 
(813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Online Exam Proctoring  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  terms  
and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  
Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  
may elect  to drop or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  
taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is 
purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  
must  be done  with the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.   
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  
with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  
any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of 
any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they 
take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  
information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  
students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . 
For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  proctoring  student  
FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .   
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, Slack, GroupMe, etc.) 
to communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that acade mic integrity 
policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is 
prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving u nauthorized information about an 
examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.  
 
Course Policies : 
Title IX Policy  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, 
Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures 
of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX 
Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via 
phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of  
resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are 
unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can 
review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This 
does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these 
websites (including uploading propriet ary materials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be 
silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked 
to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. 
Please arrive on time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by 
talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final 
class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. 
Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy  
Please adhere to the firm poli cy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for 
this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly 
enforced.  
 
Turnitin .com  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each 
submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard 
copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a 
report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work wa s used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays 
are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Disability Access  
Student s with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation requests at least 5 business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you  should 
plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  
 
Campus Free Expression   
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment 
where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas 
that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and 
not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the 
idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the 
idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may 
decide that certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you 
may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the 
ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree 
with it . 
 
Make -up Exams Policy   
If a student cannot be present for an examination for a valid reason (validity to be 
determined by the instructor), a make -up exam will be given only if the student has 
notified the instructor in advance that s/he cannot be present for the exam. Make -up 
exams are given at the convenience of the instructor usually on Fridays at 10 am . 
 
Rewrites Policy   
Rewrites are entirely optional; however, only the formal essay may be rewritten for a 
revised grade. Note that an alternate grading rubric will be used for the rewrite, featuring 
an additional column that evaluates the changes made specifically . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for o ne semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Essay Commentary Policy  Commentary on essays will be delivered in written format, at the end of the essay. 
However, upon request, an alternate delivery method can be used. If desired, instructor 
comments w ill be made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 through Canvas. 
This approach yields far fewer written comments, but much more commentary in general 
is delivered, due to the speed and specificity of speech. Those requesting mp3 feedback 
must st ate so when the essay is turned in.  
 
Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility 
Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information 
about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehen sive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You 
can also contact  the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing  
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
Example : The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or 
abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocati ng for their rights, and 
by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, preven tion, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website fo r the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will  work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudi o@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing stu dio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
*  