  1 MS MANAGEMENT  CAPSTONE  
MAN  6950 -901 
Spring  2023 
Tues . 6:30pm–10:15pm 
BSN  118 
 
Instructor  Information  
Professor : Logan  Steele  
E-Mail:  lmsteele@usf.edu  
Office:  CIS 2069  
Office  Hours:  Tues . 12:00pm-2:00pm  or by appointment  
 
Course  Description  
As a capstone,  this course  serves  as an opportunity  to reflect  on, integrate , and put into practice  what  you have  learned  
throughout  this program.  To structure  this process,  we will view  management  through  the lens of complex  problem  
solving.  That  is, we will assume  that the chief  function  of a manager ––the primary  way in which  they  add value  in 
organizations ––is to solve  problems,  most  of which  are difficult  and not straightforward  to address.  
 
In this course,  we will explore  a set of processes  through  which  you will be able  to recognize  problems  in organizations,  
systematically  investigate  their  causes,  and evaluate  potential  solutions.  We will draw  on knowledge  you have  acquired  
through  previous  courses,  as well as acquire  new  knowledge.  What  I hope  you will get out of this course  is this:  an 
integrated  set of knowledge  and skills  that will enable  you as a manager  to analyze  organizational  situations  and 
implement  appropriate  solutions  to change  an organization  for the better.  
 
Student  Learning  Outcomes  
1. Appropr iately  apply  relevant  knowledge  from  previous  courses  (e.g.,  organizational  behavior,  people  analytics,  etc.)  
2. Distill  complex  organizational  issues  into measurable  discrepancies  
3. Develop  an appropriate  plan  for collecting  data  that will enable  an accurate  diagnosis  of a problem  
4. Design  data  collection  tools  (e.g.,  surveys,  interviews)  that will enable  an accurate  diagnosis  of a problem  
5. Provide  solutions  that are based  on evidence  and sound  reasoning  and that accommodate  situational  constraints  
6. Design  a research  study  that would  test the efficacy  of a solution(s)  
7. Draw appropriate  inferences  from  the results  of a research  study  
 
Materials  
All materials  will be provided  on Canvas . 
 
Assignments  
 
Participation  
Research  on learning  suggests  that information  is best  understood  and retained  through  active,  frequent  use of the 
content.  So, we will use our class  time  to help  you understand  and process  the material  that you cover  
outside  of class  in your  readings,  as well as to answer  the questions  that come  up as you read.  Some  of the activities  
we’ll use to reach  this understanding  include  interactive  lectures,  group  discussions,  videos,  and case  studies . 
 
Your participation grade will depend on your contributions to in -class activities , both when you’re meeting in small 
groups and when we have class discussion . Every day of class, I will call on volunteers and randomly draw names of   2 students to respond to discussion questions. I will post a participation grade  on the following scale  at the halfway point 
and end of the semester:  
• 100% = Provides responses that reflect very good understanding of course content and asks questions that 
indicate striving for better understanding of course content  
• 80% = Provides responses that reflect good understanding o f course content  
• 60% = Provides responses that reflect mediocre understanding of course content  
• 40% = Provides responses that reflect poor understanding of course content  
• 0% = Does not  provide response s related to question s asked b y the professor  or uses technology inappropriately   
 
If you choose not to attend class, you can earn Participation point through an alternative approach. You may submit to 
me via email the in -class activities we complete each week. These in -class assignments must be submitted by Friday at 
11:59pm of the week you miss class.  
 
Reaction  Posts  
Engaging  actively  with  the content  of this course  will be essential  to your  learning.  The purpose  of Reaction  Posts  is to 
help  ensure  that you are consistently  prepared  to participa te in the learning  activities  that will take  place  in class.  If you 
read  before  coming  to class , you'll  have  a better  understanding  of what ’s being  discussed . And,  after  having  read  and 
processed  the content , if there  is something  in there  that you don't  understand,  you'll  be able  to ask about  it in class.   
 
There  are eight  Reaction  Posts  due throughout  the semester.  Here  are the requirements  for this assignment:  
• Submit  on Canvas  by 11:59pm  the day before  class.   
• They  should  be 300 to 600 words  in length  (longer  is okay)  and reflect  your  original  work . 
• Include  a discussion  question.  
• Discuss  all assigned  readings.  
 
Below  are some  questions  to help  spur  your  thinking  about  what  to include  in your  reaction  post . (Note:  you do not need  
to respond  to every  question.)  
• What  are the key takeaways?  
• What  was interesting  to you,  and why?  What  did you learn?  
• Are you skeptical  about  anything  you read  or heard ? If so, why?  
• How  do your  professional  or personal  experiences  relate  to the content?  
• How  do the ideas  in these  readings  relate  to other  content  presented  in the course  or previous  courses ? 
• How  might  you apply  what  you learned  to your  current  job or future  career?   
• What  are the practical  implications  of the readings  for organizations?  
 
Grades  will be determined  by the instructor  based  on the quality  of content . Discussion  Leaders  are strongly  encouraged  
to read  these  ahead  of the days  on which  they  will be teaching.  
 
Career  Development  Exercises  
For most  of you,  this course  will be your  final  or penultimate  semester  in this program.  As a result,  I want  to ensure  that 
you are as prepared  as possible  for the next  step  in your  career. To facilitate  this transition,  you will attend  a Career  
Development  Workshop  facilitated  by Anna Bahvala , the Student  Success  Champion  in the School  of Information  Systems  
and Management . This workshop  will be scheduled  during  a regular  class  time  this semester.  She will lead  you through  (1) 
creating  a professional  LinkedIn  profile,  and (2) preparing  an up-to-date  résum é. You will then  submit  a link to your  
updated  LinkedIn  profile  and upload  a copy  of your  résum é. 
 
Discussion  Leader  
You and your  class mates  play a large  and integral  part in determining  how  much  will be gained  from  taking  this course.  
You will only  get out of this course  what  you put into it. My hope  and expectation  are that everyone  (myself  included)  will 
benefit  by hearing  one another ’s perspective,  whether  or not we agree  with  each  other  on certain  issues.  In fact,  it is 
exciting  when  we disagree!  To make  sure  a variety  of points  of view  are represented,  be prepared  to regularly  participate  
in-class  discussions  and activities.     3  
Because  active  discussion  is so important  in this course,  once  during  this semester,  you will lead  a small  group  on a topic  
we’re learning.  It is expected  that Discussion  Leaders  will develop  a firm understanding  of the assigned  topic,  and that 
they  will be able  to lead  their  peers  in achieving  a deeper  understanding.  This will require  Discussion  Leaders  to find related  
materials  themselves  and consult  sources  outside  those  assigned . You may  do this through  whatever  means  you like, as 
long  as they  are not disruptive  to other  discussion  leaders.  The grade  for this assignment  will be based  on the materials  
submitted  ahead  of leading  the discussion  and my observations  of your  discussion  group  during  class . Here  are the 
requirements  for this assignment:  
• Find  at least  two sources  relevant  to the focal  article  of the week  (the focal  article  is the one listed  in the 
“Discussion  Leader  Dates ” Google  Sheet  on Canvas)  
o The sources  must  not be ones  that I have  assigned  
o The sources  must  be from  reputable  sources  (e.g.,  academic  journals,  newspapers,  business  magazines)  
• In 300 to 600 words,  write  about  how  the sources  you find give you a richer  understanding  of the focal  article  of 
the week  
• Write  3 to 5 discussion  questions  
• Submit  on Canvas  by the time  class  starts  on the day you are assigned  to present  
 
Remember,  it is essential  that we show  respect  to each  other  in this process . As a class,  I expect  us to foster  an 
environment  ripe for learning.  
 
Managerial  Problem -Solving  Project  
This course  is a very  practical  one.  As I mentioned  in the Course  Description,  we are focused  in this course  on integrating  
and applying  the knowledge  you have  acquired  through  this graduate  program.  The primary  way in which  we will put 
knowledge  into prac tice is through  the Managerial  Problem -Solving  (MPS)  Project.  In team s of 3 to 4 members , you will 
find a business  to consult  with  and work  to address  a managerial  problem  they  are facing.  A detailed  rubric  will be provided  
on Canvas.  
 
Although  some  studen ts prefer  working  in groups,  others  do not. For those  of you who  feel some  reservations  about  this 
idea  (as I often  did as a student),  here  is the rationale  behind  why  I am organiz ing the assignment  this way.  First,  this 
project  will be a hefty  workload  for one person  to address  on his/her  own.  Having  teammates  will allow  you to distribute  
that workload.  Second,  having  multiple  team  members  expands  your  professional  network,  increasing  the chances  of 
finding  a business  that will open  its doors  to you to collect data.  Third,  while  conducting  this project , you will likely  run 
into problems,  and the solutions  may  not be readily  apparent.  If such  an event  occurs,  it will be helpful  to have  the 
intellectual  and emotional  support  of some  colleagues.  
 
Ultimately,  by the end of the semester,  my goal  is for you to garner  a substantive  experience  from  this course  –– and this 
project,  in particular  –– so that you can add it to your  résum é and sell it to prospective  employers  in job interviews.  
 
    4 Summary  of Assignments  
 
Category (% of grade)  Specific Assignment  Points  % of Grade  
Participation (10%)  Participation  1 & 2  100 5% each  
Reaction Posts (32%)  Reaction Post 1 – 8 320 4% each  
Career Development (4%)  Up-to-date Résumé and LinkedIn Profile  40 2% each  
Discussion Leader (10%)  Discussion Leader 1 & 2  100 5% each  
MPS  Project  (44%)  Team Plan 1 – 4 40 1% each  
Paper 1 – 4 400 10% each  
 
Grading  
Final  grades  will be calculated  by summing  all the points  you have  accumula ted in the course . Grades  will be determined  
using  the grading  scale  shown  below.  Please  do not ask to have  your  final  grade  rounded  up. 
 
F ≥ 599  D 600 – 699  C 700 – 799  B 800 – 899  A 900 – 1000  
 
Policies  
 
Communication  
The best  way to contact  me is through  email.  I answer  email  regularly  (and  usually  within  a few hours ) on weekdays.  There  
may  be times  during  the semester  when  I do not have  access  to email , but I will be sure  to notify  you if such  situations  
occur.  
To avoid  confusion  on my part,  please  follow  the following  guidelines  when  sending  emails:   
1. Use only  this email  address:  lmsteele@usf .edu    
2. Identify  yourself  as a student  in MAN  6950  in either  the subject  line or the first paragraph  of your  email.    
3. Always  sign your  emails,  so that I know  who  sent  them .   
4. Treat  your  emails  as professional  communications ––use proper  grammar,  punctuation,  and spelling,  and avoid  
internet  shorthand .  
 
Technology  in the Classroom   
The use of computers,  tablets,  and phones  are prohibited  during  class  (unless  needed  to accommodate  a disability).  The 
research  on the use of technology  during  class  is unambiguous ––it’s not only  counterproductive  to your  own  learning  
(Ravizza  et al., 2017 ) but also your  classmates ’ (Sana  et al., 2013 ). We only  have  a few hours  together  in the classroom  
each  week;  I want  us to make  the most  of it by being  focused  and fully  present.  
 
Late  Assignments  
An assignment  that is turned  in late will be penalized  10%  for every  day that it’s late.  After  one week  passed  the deadline , 
assignments  may  no longer  be submitted  for a grade.   
 
There  are three  reasons  I have  this late assignment  policy.  First,  each  assignment  during  a given  week  is intended  to be 
complementary  to one another.  Therefore,  to get the most  out of these  assignments,  it’s important  that they  are 
completed  close  in time.  Second,  this policy  helps  to ensure  everyone  is held  to the same  standard.  It is easy  to imagine  
becoming  frustrated  that your  work  turned  in on time  earns  the same  grade  as someone  else’s work  turned  in weeks  late.  
I want  to head  off issues  like those  by having  a consistent,  late assignment  policy.  Finally,  this policy  is helpful  to me as 
your  professor  as well.  Grading  all assignments  at one time  helps  me to deliver  grades  back  to you in a timely  fashion;  
furthermore,  it ensures  that I’m grading  open -ended  assignments  (i.e.,  non-multiple -choice  questions)  in the same  way 
for all students.  
   5 I recognize  that extenuating  circumstances  can emerge,  however.  If this happens,  please  let me know  immediately.  
Communicating  with  me the moment  a problem  arises  really  helps  with  this,  so please  prioritize  this. If you wait  until  
weeks  after  the problem  has passed,  I can’t do much  for you. So, late assignments  are only  accepted  in extenuating  
circumstances  where  documentation  (or some  other  kind  of verification)  of the circumstance  is provided.  
 
Academic  Integrity  
The Academic  integrity  means  honesty  and responsibility  in scholarship.  Here are the basic  assumptions  about  academic  
work:  (1) Students  attend  university  in order  to learn  and grow,  (2) academic  assignments  exist  for the sake  of this goal,  
(3) grades  exist  to show  how  fully  the goal  is attained,  (4) thus,  all work  and all grade s should  result  from  the student's  
own  effort  to learn  and grow.  Academic  work  completed  any other  way is pointless,  and grades  obtained  any other  way 
are fraudulent.   
 
Academic  integrity  means  understanding  and respecting  these  basic  truths,  without  which  no university  can exist.  
Academic  misconduct  is not just "against  the rules" ; it violates  the assumptions  at the heart  of all learning.  It destroys  the 
mutual  trust  and respect  that should  exist  between  student  and professor.  Finally,  it is unfair  to students  who  earn  their  
grades  honestly.   
 
Academic  dishonesty  is a completely  unacceptable  mode  of conduct  and persons  involved  in academic  dishonesty  will be 
disciplined  in accordance  with  University  regulations  and procedures.   Discipline  may  include  suspension  or expulsion  from  
the University.  Academic  dishonesty  includes  but is not limited  to cheating  (e.g.,  looking  on another  person's  exam  or 
allowing  them  to look  on yours),  plagiarism,  collusion,  the submission  for credit  of any work  or mate rials that are 
attributable  in whole  or in part to another  person  (i.e.,  copying  someone  else's  work,  allowing  someone  to do your  papers  
or take  your  exams  for you),  taking  an examination  for another  person,  any act designed  to give unfair  advantage  to a 
student  or the attempt  to commit  such  acts.  For more  information  on academic  integrity,  please  see USF’s policy  here . 
 
Reasonable  Accommodations  for Students  with  Disabilities  
As a faculty  membe r, I am committed  to providing  reasonable  accommodations  to students  with  disabilities,  so as not to 
discriminate  on the basis  of that disability.  Student  responsibility  primarily  rests  with  informing  faculty  at the beginning  of 
the semester  and in providing  autho rized  documentation  through  designated  administrative  channels.  If you,  as a student  
in this course,  have  a disability  that may  prevent  you from  fully  demonstrating  your  abilities,  please  consult  with  Student  
Accessibility  Services  (www.usf.edu/sas)  to arrange  appropriate  accommodations.  
 
Campus  Free  Expression  
It is fundamental  to the University  of South  Florida ’s mission  to support  an environment  where  divergent  ideas,  theories,  
and philosophies  can be openly  exchanged  and critically  evaluated.  Consistent  with  these  principles,  this course  may  
involve  discussion  of ideas  that you find uncomfortable,  disagreeable,  or even  offensive.   
 
In the instructional  setting,  ideas  are intended  to be presented  in an objective  manner  and not as an endorsement  of what  
you should  personally  believe.  Objective  means  that the idea(s)  presented  can be tested  by critical  peer  review  and 
rigorous  debate,  and that the idea(s)  is supported  by credible  research.   
 
Not all ideas  can be supported  by objective  methods  or criteria.  Regardless,  you may  decide  that certain  ideas  are worthy  
of your  personal  belief.  In this course,  however,  you may  be asked  to engage  with  complex  ideas  and to demonstrate  an 
understanding  of the ideas.  Understan ding  an idea  does  not mean  that you are required  to believe  it or agree  with  it.  6 Course  Calendar*  
 
Class  Dates  Topic  Readings  and  Lectures  Due  Assignments  [Due  Dates ] 
Week  1: 
Feb.  7 Introductions , syllabus  review,  evidence -
based  practices  as problem  solving   Milestone  1: Form  teams  [Feb.  10] 
Week  2: 
Feb.  14 Defining  the problem  Repenning  et al. (2017,  pp. 39-43) 
Spradlin  (2012)  Milestone  2: Find  an organization  [Feb.  17] 
Week  3: 
Feb.  21 Analyzing  the problem  I: The  basics  Redman  (2014)  
Hidden  Brain  (2021 , 0:00 -12:41)  Plan  of Work  1 [Feb.  24] 
Week  4: 
Feb . 28 Team  meetings   Paper  1: Initial  Meeting,  Problem  Definition,  & Problem  Analysis  [Mar.  3] 
Peer  Feedback  1 [Mar.  3] 
Week  5: 
Mar.  7 Analyzing  the problem  II: The  tools  Ebster  (2014 ) 
Designing  an interview  
McLeod  (2015)  Plan  of Work  2 [Mar.  10] 
Mar.  14 Spring  Break    
Week  6: 
Mar.  21 Testing  solutions  I: Criteria  and  designs  Bahrampour  (2018)  
Denworth  (2019)   
Week  7  
Mar.  28 Team  meetings   Paper  2: Data  Collection  Proposal  and  Analysis  Plan  [Mar . 31] 
Peer  Feedback  2 [Mar . 31] 
Week  8: 
Apr.  4 Testing  solutions  II: Considerations  Sanchez  (2018)  
Schaffer  (2017)  Milestone  3: Collect  Data  [Apr.  7] 
Plan  of Work  3 [Apr.  7] 
Week  9: 
Apr.  11 Evaluating  results  Denrell  (2005)  
Gino  & Pisano  (2011)   
Week  10: 
Apr.  18 Team  meetings   Paper  3: Summary  of Results  and  Conclusions  [Apr.  21] 
Peer  Feedback  3 [Apr.  21] 
Week  11: 
Apr.  25 Pros  and  cons  of evidence -based  
management  Pfeffer  & Sutton  (2006)  
Stoll  (2019)  Plan  of Work  4 [Apr.  28] 
Week  12: 
May 2 The  future  of management  Waters  (2020)  
Groth  (2020)  Paper  4: Recommendations  and  Research  Design  [May  5] 
Peer  Feedback  4 [May  5] 
*The course  calendar  is subject  to change  at the instructor ’s discretion.  
 
 