         1  
 
 
 
 
Semester : Spring  2023 
Dates : 1/14/23- 2/17/23 
Delivery method : Online synchronous  
Location : Online  
Instructor : Varol Kayhan  
Instructor  email : vkayhan@usf.edu  
Virtual Office Hours : Thursdays  6:00pm-7:00pm (Microsoft Teams)  
 
Course Schedule  (subject to revision due to unseen circumstances)  
 
 
MODULE  MEETING  DAY  TOPIC  DUE DATES  
1 Jan 14  Intro to ML   
Jan 15  Intro to ML  Jan 15, 11:59pm  
2 (Asynchronous)  Training Models  Jan 20, 11:59pm  
3 (Asynchronous)  Support Vector Machine s Jan 20, 11:59pm  
Assessment 1  Jan 2 5, 11:59pm  
4 Jan 21  Decision Trees  Jan 21, 11:59pm  
5 Jan 22  Ensemble Models  Jan 22, 11:59pm  
6 (Asynchronous)  Text Mining  Jan 27, 11:59pm  
7 (Asynchronous)  Neural Networks  Jan 27, 11:59pm  
Assessment 2  Feb 5 , 11:59pm  
8 Jan 28  Deep Neural Networks  Jan 28, 11:59pm  
9 Jan 29  Convolutional Neural Networks  Jan 29, 11:59pm  
10 (Asynchronous)  Recurrent Neural Networks  Feb 12, 11:59pm  
11 (Asynchronous)  Autoencoders and GANs  Feb 12, 11:59pm  
Assessment 3  Feb 17, 11:59pm  
 
 
 
ISM 6251 :  
Data Science Programming  
Credit Hours : 3 
Muma College of Business ,  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/24/2023  2 Minimum Technical Skills & Requirements:  This course requires you to learn  and use  Python. 
You will be given example code, but you should be able to adapt these to new problems. You 
will have to install Anaconda distribution on your computer to use Python.  
 
In order to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate proficiency at 
basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system 
requirements  listed at: https://www.usf.edu/it/remote/requirements -for-students.aspx   
 
 
Session Recordings:  In this class, software will be used to record live class lectures and 
discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be 
recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to 
assist  those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would 
like to review content that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will 
be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be capture d. Please discuss this 
option with your instructor.   
 
 
 
 University Course Description  
Data analytics techniques, tools and applications have become mainstream in variety of 
business, scientific, social and policy applications. This course will provide students an in -
depth overview of machine learning techniques for analytics using Python as the 
programming language and students will learn to apply advanced machine learning 
techniques using Python. Students are expected to be familiar with at lea st one 
programming language and will be expected to learn Python independently in the course, 
as the focus will be on applying machine learning ideas in this platform, and not the 
language itself.  
 
Specific topics will include decision trees, gradient desc ent methods, support vector 
machines, dimensionality reduction, neural networks, deep learning and reinforcement 
learning. The course will focus on advanced understanding of these methods along with 
use of these techniques in Python.  
 
 Course Prerequisites  
None   
 
 First Week Attendance Policy  
You will be required to make a submission for your first week attendance policy. Students 
who don’t complete the first week submission  by the due date will be  dropped from the 
course.   
 
 Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of the course student s will be able to:  3 • Demonstrate understanding of specific machine learning methods  
• Describe different ways in which models can be evaluated  
• Build and evaluate predictive models using Python  
• Analyze a dataset using data analytics methods  
• Describe global business scenarios where machine learning can be applied  
 
 Required Text  
Hands -On Machine Learning with Scikit -Learn and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and 
Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems, 2nd Edition by Aurélien Géron  
(Can be downloaded as an e -book from USF Library for free ) 
 
 Grading Scale, Grade Categories, and Weights  
 
 
Evaluation:  Points  Total  Grading:  
3 Quizzes  
3 Assignments  
11 Exercises  45 points  (15 each)  
45 points ( 15 each ) 
10 points ( +1 extra ) 45% of grade  
45% of grade  
10% of grade  
 A 90% and up  
B 80-90% 
C 70-80% 
D 60-70% 
F 0-60% 
TOTAL   100%   
 
 
 Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.   
 
 
 How to Succeed in this Course  – Organized as a FAQ:  
 
• Do I have to buy the textbook?  
No. If you take good notes and pay attention to the lectures, you will be fine. But, this is one 
of the best  textbooks on machine learning. It is a good source of information in this field.  
You can also download it from the USF library for free.  
 
• Are there  other sources of information I can use?  
The topics covered in this course are very popular/contemporary. A simple Google search 
will return lots of information. But be careful: not all websites provide accurate/academic 
information.  
 
• Do I have to buy any software programs?  
No. All software used in this course is free.  
 
• Is there a recommended operating system for this course?  
No. The required software (Anaconda) can be installed on both PCs and MACs.  
 4 • How is this class organized?  
All course materials are o rganized using "Modules". You'll complete each module before a 
specific deadline. Please see the Modules page in Canvas.  
 
• How do I know what to do for each Module?  
Please refer to each Module Instructions in Canvas. They tell you what to do and the 
approximate time it takes to complete each module.  
What should I expect to see in each Module?  
o Each module usually consists of the following:  
o Module instructions  
o Module files  
o Exercise  
There are three Assessment modules that consist of the following:  
o Assignment  
o Quiz  
 
• Are the quizzes timed?  
Yes. Please refer to each quiz instruction on Canvas to learn more about quizzes.  
 
• How do I know what is covered in each quiz?  
Please refer to each quiz instruction on Canvas. The instructions describe the modules 
covered in that quiz.  
 
• What types of questions should I expect on quizzes?  
Quizzes involve multiple choice, multiple answer, and true/false questions.  
 
• Are quizzes open notes?  
Yes. However, if you rely only on your notes and do not study, you will run out of  time before 
answering all questions. Study and be prepared before taking the quizzes . If you don't study 
well, you'll likely fail the quizzes.  
 
• What are "assignments"?  
Assignments allow you to apply what you learned in module s to a new problem. They are 
either group work (two people most) or individual work (depending on your choice) and 
must be submitted before their deadline (announced in Canvas).  
 
• Can I make a late submission (or complete any assignment after its due date)?  
Late submissions are accepted only within 24 hours of an assignment's due date. All late 
submissions will be penalized by 50%.  
 
• Can I take a quiz late?  
No, quizzes cannot be taken after their due dates – unless you have a documentable excuse 
such as a doctor's note.  5  
• Can I make submissions through email?  
No. Please use the appropriate submission links in Canvas.  
 
• Do technological problems qualify for an extension, late submission, or retaking 
quizzes?  
No.  
 
• Can I get an extension on a due date, because one of the following o ccurred: my 
computer did an update and restarted in the middle of a quiz/assignment; my 
computer broke down; Canvas is not available; power went out, my Internet went 
out?  
No. But you can make a late submission within 24 hours, which has a 50% penalty.  
 
• Can I work with others, or get help from somebody else to complete 
assignments/quizzes?  
No. This is considered cheating. Please refer to the Academic Integrity policy of the graduate 
catalog to see what is considered cheating.  
 
• What happens if I cheat?  
You w ill be subjected to the following punishments:  
o Level one violation: No credit is given for the assignment. An additional letter 
grade is  deducted from the overall grade.  
o Level two violation: Failing grade for the course (“F”) is assigned.  
o Level three viol ation: Failing grade for the course (“FF”) is assigned. Suspension 
for one semester.  
o Level four violation: Failing grade for the course (“FF”) is assigned. Dismissal from 
the university.  
(Please see the graduate catalog for the definitions of these violati ons. Note that most 
cheating falls under levels two and three.)  
 
• I sent an email after 7pm, why didn't I get a response; what should I do?  
I may not be able to answer emails after 7pm. If it is the day of submission, please try your 
best and make a submiss ion. 
 
• Is there any other recommendations you can make for this course?  
Please don't procrastinate or leave things to the last minute in this course. It will do nothing 
but hurt your grade. There are so many things that can go wrong – especially when you are 
dealing with programming.  
 
 
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
• Email response: Students can expect to receive a response to their email inquiries 
within 24 hours – unless there are unexpected circumstances. I may not be able to 6 respond to email inquiries after 7pm. Please don't wait till the last minute, get help 
early.  
• Grading & Feedback: Students can expect to see their grades for assignments/exams 
and receive feedback within 5 business days – unless there are unexpected 
circumstances.  
 
 Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observ ances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be 
accessed on the USF Core Syllabus Policy Statements page  at 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx . 
 
 
 Course Policies:  
 
Late Work Policy  
Any assignment, quiz, project, etc. turned in late will be assessed a penalty: 50% of  
grade if it is one day late. Essays will not be accepted if overdue by more than  one day.  
 
Grades of “Incomplete ” 
An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete 
and sign the "I" Grade Con tract Form that describes the work to be completed, the 
date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate 
courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were 
due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (includ ing summer 
semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
 
 Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Online Proctoring  
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms 
and video testing requirements to determ ine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any 
student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the 
drop/add period.  Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online 
proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) 
with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this 7 remote recording device is purch ased and controlled by the student and that 
recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any 
person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should 
select private spaces for the testing. The Uni versity library and other academic sites at 
the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns 
may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or 
advisor. Students must ensure that a ny recordings do not invade any third -party 
privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party 
privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored 
exam. For additional information abo ut online proctoring you can visit the online 
proctoring student FAQ  at this link . 
 
 
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Course Hero / Chegg  Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites 
that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. 
This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these 
websites (including uploading proprietary mat erials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made avai lable at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with 
respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other 
people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may 
not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There 
will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious 
beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling . Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread 
on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are 
shouting, and it is more difficult to r ead.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily 
get your idea or answers they are looking for.  8 5. Be clear with your message. Avoid usi ng humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines  
1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or 
discussion is  about.  
2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post 
anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore,  any issues 
should not be posted there.   
 
 
 Learning Support and Campus Offices   
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services 
(SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa  and Sarasota -Manatee  campus es. 
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enha nce undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success websit e. 
Office of Student Success website for the Tampa campus.  
Office of Student Success website for the St. Pete campus.  
Office of St udent Success website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Canvas Technical Support   
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing 
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empower s survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision maki ng, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources.  Contact information is available online . 9 Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Tampa campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the St. Pete campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promote s the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success . Contact information is available online .  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete ca mpus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subject s to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information , email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring websi te for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus . 
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and gra duate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an ap pointment, email  
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio  website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 