1  
 
 
 
QMB 6358: Data Analytics for Business  
CRN: 50055 , Section #521 ( Hybrid section), 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Summer C  2023 
 
Mandatory In-Class Instruction : Week s 1, 4, and 9  (5/20, 6/10, and 7/15) 
Time: Saturday  (5/20, 6/10, and 7/15 ) 8:30 am  – 12:30 pm 
In-Class Meeting Location: USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -B229  
 
Asynchronous Learning : Weeks 2 , 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8  (5/27, 6/3, 6/17, 6/24, 7/1, and 7/ 8)  
Students can choose to complete the rest of the course asynchronously if that is how they want to learn.  
Recordings for the week will be made available by 2 p.m. on Saturday s, on the dates indicated above .  
Optional Synchronous Live Instruction (on M S Teams):  Weeks 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8 ( 5/27, 6/3, 
6/17, 6/24, 7/1, and 7/ 8)   
However, as a few students requested , and given the nature of the subject  and challenges  students face,  
I can potentially hold synchronous live classes on Microsoft Teams  with hands -on demonstrations  for 
interested students . Students who believe they learn better through live sessions  are more than welcome 
to attend s ynchronous live sessions to learn the subje ct. A survey will be conducted to determine student 
interest in live sessions on the 1st day of class  on Saturday 5/20.  
Optional Online Class  Meeting Day s: Saturday  (5/27, 6/3, 6/17, 6/24, 7/1  & 7/8) 7-9 am  
Optional Online Class Meeting Location: Synchronous L ive Session on Microsoft Teams   
 
Instructor:  Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu , Assistant Professor of Instruction  
Office Location:  USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus   Building -Room:  SMC -C229  
Office Hours:  To be held remotely on Microsoft Teams – Schedule  to be announced  on Canvas.  
Email:  RGovindu@usf.edu  
 
Note:  This is a 3-credit hour course. A 3-credit hour course means  3 hours per week of in -class instruction over 
a 15-week semester. Since this course is held over summer C semester and runs over 9 weeks, it will be 4 hours 
per week of in -class instruction over a 9-week term. Time for course preparation and reading assignments; 
and time for completing homework assignments, quizzes, and exams will be outs ide of instructional time just 
like any other course students take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to the new  semester. Organizations these days are collecting massive 
amounts of data. Companies that exploit data through analytics in making business decisions tend 
to outperform others and make a lot of money leading to long term success. In this “ Data Analytics 
for Business ” course; you will learn to utilize several tools and techniques focusing on Descriptive 
Analytics, Visualizations, and Predictive Analytics including Data mining, and Classification.  This 
course integrates Excel , R, and several other analytics tools . You w ill learn to acquire critical 
 
 
2 thinking , problem solving, analytical skills that would help you throughout your career in business 
and industry. When mastered, and through practice and experience,  these skills can help students 
to get into high paying jobs.  
 
II. University Course Description  
“This course will introduce  data analytics for managers. It is targeted for MBA students and provides an 
overview of data collection, visualization,  and business dashboards, as well as classification models on 
customer data. ”   
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
QMB 6305: Managerial Decision Ana lysis with a minimum grade of C  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
This is a second course in data analytics for graduate students and assumes that you have basic 
knowledge of statistics. For that reason, QMB 6305: Managerial Decision Analysis is a prerequisite for 
this course. It is important that students review basic concepts of statistics to be prepared to learn the 
content in this course ( this is especially true for students who might have forgotten statistics) . While we 
will do a quick review of some  of the concepts , the focus  of this course is on the application of statistics 
and analytics methods for solving real -world data  problems.  So, the focus of the course will be on 
applications utilizing several software tools. S o, please be sure that you make effective use of the first 
few weeks at the beginning of this course  to catch up on the basics of statistics . The purpose of QMB 
6358 is to help students (who are current and future Business Managers) acquire skills in applying 
statistical tools / techniques for dat a-driven business analytics and decision making. In particular, the 
course emphasizes and prepares students to “learn,” “interpret,” and “be ready to apply” the concepts 
and methods, rather than learn to do calculations alone , in areas such as  Descriptive Analytics, 
Visualizations, and Predictive Analytics including Datamining, and Classification.  
 
V. Course Topics  
a. Descriptive Statistics  
b. Visualization  
c. Data Management & Cleaning Strategies  
d. Estimation and Statistical Inference  
e. Regression Analysis and Model building  
f. Descriptive and Predictive Data Mining  
g. Time Series Analysis & Forecasting  
h. Spreadsheet Modeling  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
At the conclusion of this course the successful student is expected to : 
a. Learn concepts and met hods related to descriptive analytics  and visualizations.  
b. Learn concepts and methods relat ed to predictive analytics, statistical modeling, and statistical 
data mining.  
c. Learn  to use several tools such as Excel, R, Tableau, and others to perform analyses in  descriptive 
analytics, visualizations, predictive analytics, and datamining.  
d. Learn to implement methods on real world data using state -of-the-art software tools and  be able 
to extract and communicate useful information for the decision makers.  
 
VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Business Analytics  | 5th Edition by Jeffrey D. Camm/James J. Cochran/Michael J. Fry/Jeffrey W. 
Ohlmann, CENGAGE, ISBN: 9780357693933   
 
3 Please note: Cengage has informed me that students must choose the  Cengage Unlimited  option.  
• In this course we use “Microsoft Excel” extensively . Usage of other spreadsheet applications such 
as Google Sheets, OpenOffice, and others is not acceptable. If you do not  have Microsoft Office on 
your system, as a student of USF you are allowed free download and installation of Microsoft 
Office for persona l use. Check out the info at: 
https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -download.aspx . 
 
VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and  Materials  
Additional supplementary (optional) documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed for the 
benefit of students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge. However, students 
will not be tested on the content.  
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course  
There is no way to do well in the course without learning. Just follow all the instructions and 
directions provided in the detailed schedule in this document and in weekly communications. 
Always be on time with learning and complete all the tasks on time. Follow the process steps as 
outlined here. Do not skip any step or short -circuit the process in anyway.  
i. Complete the reading assignments before class by Friday every week.  
ii. Attend all in -class meetings on 5/20, 6/10, and 7/15 the ent ire duration. Given the nature of 
the subject,  students find the course to be challenging. To help students learn well and do 
well, I will be holding classes Live on Microsoft Teams 8:30 am – 12:30 pm  on Satur days  we do 
not meet on campus in Sarasota. It i s important that students take advantage of the same, 
learn better and do well in the course.  These sessions include demonstrations and will be 
recorded.  
iii. Practice solving the solved example problems demonstrated in  the course on your own first. If 
you can solve those problems correctly on your own, that is an indication that learning has 
happened.  
iv. Start working on homework assignment problems soon the HW is opened  which should 
happen before Saturday ends . The sooner you get started, the more time you will have to 
work on them  and t o seek help if and as needed. Do not wait until the day of submission or 
even the final hours to get started on HW assignments. Submit your homework report well 
before the deadline,  typically 11:59 p.m. the following Friday ( see the detailed schedule in 
this document for the deadlines).  
v. Complete all the tasks assigned on time . No late submissions are allowed  on this course for 
any reason . HW assignments is where you learn. Do not  miss work and lose points 
unnecessarily.  Students must meet all the deadlines for their own benefit and learning.  
vi. Attend Office Hour sessions to be held on Teams to get help if and as needed . Schedule for 
Office Hours will be announced during week 1 . 
vii. Give yourself plenty of time on Projects . Submit them on time. No late submissions are allowed. 
You must follow all the instructions and do a thorough and rigorous job on them to get good 
grades in the course. Seek help during office hours on Teams if and as needed. If you follow the 
above advice , you will do well.  
 
X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued 
pandemic or hurricane season. If the university transitions  to remote instruction , classes will be held via 
live, synchronous sessions using Microsoft Teams  and attendance  will be required just like in regular 
classes. You will find the Teams sessions links on your USF Email calendar and Microsoft Teams calendar. 
All course material will be in our course on Canvas.  
  
 
4 XI. Communication  
I will communicate with you through Emails from Canvas Inbox. You must also communicate with the 
instructor through E -mails from Canvas Inbox. You will find information on tone and etiquet te when 
communicating under “Course Policies: Technology and Media .” I should be able to respond to your e -
mails within a day or two at the max  depending on weekday/weekends . It can be a bit longer if I am 
travelling and out of network reach. But I will do  my best to respond to you as quickly as I can.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)   
97 – 100%  A+  
93 – < 97% A  
90 – < 93% A-  
87 – < 90 % B+  
83 –  < 87 % B  
80 –  < 83% B-  
77 – < 80 % C+  
73 – < 77% C  
70 – < 73%  C-  
67 – < 70 % D+  
63 – < 67% D  
60 – < 63% D-  
0 – < 60 % F  
 
It is mandatory that students  must  complete both Project #1 and Project #2 and do well on them to 
earn a final  passing grade in the course.  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be entertained .  
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Weights (% of Final Grade)  
Attendance & C ourse  Participation  5% 
Homework Assignments  (Individual Task ) 45% 
Project #1 – Visualization Project  (Individual Task ) 20% 
Project #2 – Analytics Project  (Individual Task)  30% 
      Total        100%  
 
XIV. Additional Details on the Course Assignments and Grading Policies  
 
ATTENDANCE & COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Attendance and Course participation on Canvas on the weeks we meet in class (5/20, 6/10, and 7/15) is 
mandatory . To earn points attendance and class participation points, students must attend the three 
mandatory meetings in class and for the entire class duration. Studen ts who do attend all three 
mandatory meetings the entire time will earn two additional points for a total of 5% of the course final 
grade. Students who miss one or mandatory meetings  or attend class only for partial session  will lose 
points  for the missed sessions and will not earn the extra two points . How many points students lose will 
depend on their attendance and class participation on those mandatory meeting dates. Every class you 
attend, attend the entire duration of the class. Students must engage t hemselves with the course  
 
5 content through active participation . The nature of the course is such, and there is also compelling 
evidence  that students who participate  learn in a systematic manner in the course every week end up 
learning the subject matter b etter and earn good grades.  
 
The rest of the six weeks (5/27, 6/3, 6/17, 6/24, 7/1, and 7/8)  students can learn asynchronously if they 
wish  through r ecordings to be posted on a weekly basis by Saturday 2 pm on the dates indicated. 
However, as a few students requested , I will be holding OPTIONAL Synchronous Live Sessions on 
Microsoft Teams meetings. Students are NOT REQUIRED TO ATTEND THEM but have the option to do so, 
if they think live sessions help them to learn better as opposed to asynchronous le arning . We will be 
doing a lot of hands -on tasks in this course , and students can get the help they need on the spot without 
needing to wait for the next Office Hour Teams session . Please note, I am doing so only to help students 
who have requested me to d o so during  the Spring semester.  I will survey the class on Saturday 5/20 to 
see how many students are still interested. If I happen to hold these sessions , they will be recorded in 
their entirety  and t he recordings will be available to all s tudents . There  will be no penalties for not 
attending them. But students have a whole lot to gain  if they attend  because I will be available to help 
students learn better  through hands -on activities .  
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS:  
Reading Assignments as indicated in the course schedule is mandatory. Read the chapters prior to 
attending the class. As you read the chapters, work out the solved example problems . Doing so will help 
you learn and understand the content better . If you complete the reading assignments before attending 
the class, you will learn the subject much better.  
 
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:  
All homework assignments are individual tasks. Every week specific topics will be covered along with 
solved example problems. Homework will be assigned around 10 p.m. if no t earlier on the day of class 
(Saturday) that consists of a set of problems like the solved example problems discussed in class/on 
PPT files/and in demonstrations. You will have sufficient time as indicated on the detailed schedule 
to solve the problems an d to submit a Report. Instructions will be provided on each assignment. 
Submit your report on Canvas before the due date and time indicated.  
 
The strict deadline for HW submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern as indicated on Canvas. For your 
convenience,  they are also listed in the Detailed Course Schedule at the end of this document. There 
will be no extension of due dates. No late submissions will ever be allowed. Be prepared to lose HW 
points if the Report is not turned in before the deadline. No e -mail submissions or hard -copy 
submissions are accepted. All HW scores shall count towards final grade. Homework Reports will be 
graded for Relevancy and Completeness but not for Accuracy. If the submissions are on time, 
relevant, complete, and all the problem s are solved, you get full points. Irrelevant solutions will earn 
you zero points. You will get partial credit for partial/incomplete solutions and submissions. HW 
report must demonstrate student’s own work. If any HW reports are found to be copied, all th e 
students who helped and/or received help shall be treated as violators, will receive zero points, and 
be reported for academic dishonesty. Please remember that solving Homework Assignments on your 
own is the most crucial step in learning to acquire skill s. Colluding with classmates and other 
students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and 
all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Submitting work of tutors and classmates (as  your 
own), and report s from tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating 
is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. 
Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university pol icies.  
 
PROJECTS :  
 
6 There will be two individual projects to be completed in this course – a Visualization Project, and an 
Analytics Project as indicated in the course schedule. On these projects students will complete assigned 
tasks  following all the instructions provided. Students will prepare reports and may be asked to create 
short demo video recordings demonstrating their skills. All the necessary instructions will be provided 
when the tasks are assigned in due course.  
 
The focus  of the Visualization Project is for students to demonstrate their skills in communicating with 
data. In this course students will learn powerful data visualization tools to create numerical, tabular, 
graphical, and dashboard summary visualizations. Studen ts will apply the same on specific datasets , 
create a narrative , tell the story  in a short video recording, prepare,  and submit a report. To that end, 
students will identify and utilize data sets based on their own interest and utilize the tools they  learn in 
this course. Be creative and have fun with this project. As you complete the first few HW assignments, 
you will get much better idea of the methods and tools you would be learning. Further instructions on 
the Project and a rubric for evaluation w ill be provided after 4 weeks into the course . Students must 
discuss their dataset and what they plan to do  in the project with the professor and get prior approval at 
the latest by the end of week 4. 
 
The focus of the Analytics Project will be for student s to demonstrate their skills in performing analytics 
on business data. In the second half of the course, students would learn to apply powerful predictive 
analytics techniques on business data focusing on regression, datamining, and time series methods on  
business data. Students will apply the same on specific datasets , create a narrative , tell the story in a 
short video recording, prepare,  and submit a report. To that end, students will identify and utilize 
data sets based on their own interest and utilize  the tools they learn in this course. Be creative and have 
fun with this project. As you complete the HW assignments in the predictive analytics area, you will get 
much better idea of the methods and tools you would be learning. Further instructions on the  Project 
and a rubric for evaluation will be provided after  8 week s into the course. Students must discuss their 
dataset and what they plan to do  in the project with the professor and get prior approval at the  latest by 
the end of week 8.  
 
XV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
 
All submissions happen on Canvas. The instructor  will respond to email communication relevant to the 
subject matter within 48 hours of the date received.  
 
Any feedback will be provided on Canvas. Please n ote given the nature of the course, grading takes 
considerable time. Grades and comments (as appropriate) for Homework assignments and Projects  will 
be posted on Canvas typically within 1 -2 weeks past the respective due dates. If any delays happen 
beyond t hat time  due to unforeseen circumstances, students will be informed of the possible delays 
through e -mail. You can access your scores at any time using "Gradebook" in Canvas after they are 
posted.  
   
 
7 XVI. Course Schedule . (* Note: Th is Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed)  
 
In this course, Satur day is the class meeting day, and Satur day-thru -Friday is treated as the week.   
Week  Date  Description  
1 5/20  
(Week of 
5/20–5/26) Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #0 (personal introduction – due: before 11:59 p.m. Thurs day, 5/18 ) 
• Read ing Assignment: Read Textbook Chapter 1: Introduction to Business Analytics & 
Chapter 2: Descriptive Statistics  (by Friday, 5/19 ) 
Topic: Introduction, Syllabus, Course Outline  
Topic s: Introduction to Business Analytics & Descriptive Statistics  – REVIEW  
Assignment :  
• Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 2: Descriptive Statistics & Chapter 4: Data 
Wrangling: Data Management & Data Cleaning Strategies  (by Friday, 5/26)  
2 5/27 
(Week of 
5/27–6/2) Topic s: Descriptive Statistics  – REVIEW  (continued …)  & Data Wrangling  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK # 1 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 6/2)  
• Reading Assignment: Textbook Chapter 3: Data Visualization (by Friday, 6/2) 
3 6/3 
(Week of 
6/3–6/9) Topic: Data Visualization  
Assignment :   
• HOMEWORK # 2 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 6/9) 
• Reading Assignment: Textbook Chapter 6: Descriptive Data Mining  (by Friday, 6/9) 
4 6/10  
(Week of 
6/10–6/16) Topic s: Descriptive Data Mining  
Assignment :   
• HOMEWORK # 3 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 6/16) 
• Reading Assignment: Textbook Chapter 5: Probability : An Introduction to Modeling 
Uncertainty  & Chapter 7: Statistical Inference  (by Friday (6/ 16) 
5 6/17 
(Week s of 
6/17–6/23) Topic: Probability Distributions, Estimation & Statistical Inference – REVIEW  
Assignment :   
• Project #1: Visualization Project  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 6/23) 
• Reading Assignment:  Textbook Chapter 8: Linear Regression  (by Friday, 6/23) 
6 6/24 
(Week of 
6/24–6/30) Topic:  Linear Regression  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK # 4 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 6/30 ) 
• Reading Assignment:  Textbook Chapter 10: Predictive Data Mining : Regression Tasks  
(by Friday, 6/30)  
 
8 Week  Date  Description  
7 7/1 
(Week of 
7/1–7/7) Topic: Predictive Data Mining - Regression Methods  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK # 5 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 7/7)  
• Reading Assignment:  Textbook Chapter 1 1: Predictive Data Mining : Classification Tasks  
(by Friday, 7/7) 
8 7/8 
(Week of 
7/8–7/14 Topic: Predictive Data Mining - Classification Methods  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK # 6 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 7/14 )  
• Reading Assignment: Textbook Chapter 9: Time Series Analysis & Forecasting  and 
Textbook Chapter 12: Spreadsheet Models  (by Friday, 7/14 ) 
9 7/15 
(Week of 
7/15–7/21) Topic: Time Series Analysis & Forecasting  & Spreadsheet Models   
Assignment :  
• Project #2: Analytics Project ( due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 7/21)  
 8/2 Final Grade is reported to USF by 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 8/1 and will be posted on Canvas 
Grade Book before 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, 8/2  
 8/11  Grades visible in OASIS on 8/11  
 
 
 
   
 
9 XVII. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review 
these online: usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx     
 
XVIII.  Course Policies: Gra des  
 
Online Proctoring: It is possible that some of the tasks within this course will require online proctoring. 
If so, those tasks will be administered using an online  proctoring tool - Honorlock . Keeping the audio and 
video (microphone and camera) on during such tasks  is necessary . Therefore, students will be required 
to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording d evice is purchased and controlled by the student and that 
recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the 
residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the te sting. 
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for 
recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students  must ensure that any recordings do not invade any 
third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party 
privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additio nal 
information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
    
Late Work Policy : No late work will be allowed on this course be it for HW assignments  and Projects . 
Student acquisition of knowledge in this course happens cumulatively. The nature of  the course is such 
that student learning of topics must happen on a weekly basis as scheduled. Otherwise, it will affect 
learning in  the subsequent weeks. All the due dates for the tasks in this course are announced on day 1. 
It is the responsibility of s tudents to submit their work well ahead of time and to meet all the deadlines. 
If proper, correct, and valid submissions do not happen before the respective deadlines; zero points will 
be recorded for the task. The only exception to this policy will be doc umented medical emergencies (if 
any) for the student needing medical attention with proper medical / hospitalization certificate. As all 
the dates have been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, or on vacation, or 
on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late by a second will not qualify for any exceptions or concessions as 
far as the assignment submissions go. Assignments not submitted on time mean assignment was not 
turned in and will earn a zero credit.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : Ther e will be No Extra Credit offered in this course.  There is no need to do any 
extra work on this course. Just do what you have been assigned on time  without missing  the deadlines 
to become eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments and Projects ) assigned in this course shall 
count towards your grade. If you fail to meet the deadline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No 
exceptions. Any exception wil l be made ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student 
with proper official documentation from the doctor/hospital.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Students cannot demand an “I” grade as they wish. If any student is not 
earning good grades, tha t cannot become a basis for asking for an “I” Grade. In such cases “I” grade 
cannot be awarded. It can be requested only under exceptional circumstances for valid reasons and a 
decision will be made based on USF policy.  
The current university policy conce rning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion 
of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing  
 
10 grade . The t ime limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For 
undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether  the 
student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate stud ents, this time 
limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit 
will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the ins tructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the 
"I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to b e completed, the date it is due, and the grade 
the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor if it does not exceed two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and on e semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were 
due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses 
and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade n oted 
on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : There will be no rewrites to this course. Students can submit their HW reports and 
Project reports multiple times, but all the submissions must happen only before the set deadline (and 
not after).  The final submission before the deadline is what will be graded.  
 
Make -up Assignment  Policy : There will be No Make -up assignments/projects  in this course. It is the 
student responsibility to adjust their schedules to submit their reports for HW assignment s and Projects 
before the respective deadlines . No change of dates will be entertained unless there is absolutely an 
exceptional circumstance at student’s end and for documented medical emergencies and only if student 
has notified the instructor in advance  and certainly not after the deadline passes. As all the dates have 
been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, or on vacation, or on cruise, or 
forgetfulness, or being late will not qualify for any exceptions or concessions. If the tasks are not 
submitted on time, zero points will be recorded.  
 
Assignment/Project Retention Policy : Not applicable for this course . Student submission s happen on 
Canvas so there will be an electronic record. So, whatever USF policy is for Canvas cours e retention that 
applies for the course.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy : Not applicable.  
 
Group Work Policy : All the tasks in the course – HW assignments and Projects are individual tasks. No 
group work will be allowed on this course. If students engage in any group work, that would be 
plagiarism. In such instances, action will be taken on students based on USF policy on academic integrity 
violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : In this course there are no exams. But only individual projects to be 
completed alon g with reports . 
 
Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can  
 
11 be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that 
certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage 
with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does 
not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIX. Course Policies: Tech nology and Media  
 
Email : I am Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu, and I will be your instructor for this course. My e -mail address is: 
RGovindu@usf.edu . If you are e -mailing me, as a courtesy, please commence your email with a greeting 
such as “Dear Dr. Govindu,” “Hello Dr. Govindu,” or “Dr. Govindu.” Please write the appropriate subject 
and please print your name  at th e bottom of the email.  
 
How to communicate with me  
Sending an e -mail would be the best way to approach me. Should you need help with the course, we can 
set up time to discuss remotely on Teams at mutual convenience. Meanwhile, you can email me with 
the questions, and I may be able to clarify your questions through an e -mail. If at all needed, we can set 
up an appointment at mutual convenience for a tele -conversation and if possible and required a 
Microsoft Teams meeting.   
 
How NOT to communicate with me  
• Please do not  post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework submissions. I will not 
read your comments until I sit down to grade your assignment.  
• Please do not  email me from a non -USF email account.  
• Please do not  submit deliverables to me by e-mail. It will be treated as a non -submission.  
• Please do not  reply to an email that I sent  to the entire class without changing the subject unless 
your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button to get my email address in 
the “To” l ine, please change the subject line and delete all previous text from that email, if your 
email pertains to something else. In which case it is better to not use the “reply” button and just 
start a fresh email.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will use the Canvas messaging utility to send you all emails pertaining to the course. So, you must check 
your USF mail account (and/or your e -mail where you receive USF e -mails by default). Whenever a 
student asks a question and I reply directly to that student. I f and where the student question and my 
reply are especially important  for the rest of the class to know, I will send out a mass e -mail, hiding the 
student identity. Students over the years found such input  quite beneficial for them.  
 
When students send me e -mails, I get them in my USF e -mail Inbox, and I will reply through my USF e -
mail. If I am sending e -mails, I will use Canvas messaging feature to send e -mails. You should also do the 
same. I deal with hundred to two hundred students  in regular semesters  typically and I receive hundreds 
of e-mails  every day . When you send e -mails through Canvas, I will know  who you are, in which course 
of mine you are in, I will understand the context for the question, and what is it that you are aski ng and 
why. That will help me to respond quickly. Otherwise, it could take a little longer. I respond very quickly 
– sometimes within minutes, sometimes within a few hours, sometimes within a day or so depending on 
the nature and importance of communicatio n, circumstances, and the situation at my end. I respond on 
weekends too. But expect the response times to be longer if it is weekends and if I am travelling. But be 
assured I will respond, and I will respond to student e -mails very quickly as I am able to .  
 
12  
Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your end are technology 
related you must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas Helpdesk, and/or Honorlock  Helpdesk depending 
on the issue, and they will help you immediately. I will not  be able to resolve your technology issues.  
 
Canvas : Describe how you will use Canvas in the course, how often students should expect to login, how 
team activities will be organized, due dates, policies on late participation, etc.  
Example: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view Canvas videos, or consult the Canva s help guides. If new to Canvas, 
read this guide . You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Honorlock: In this course, we may use Honorlock  on a few tasks. If we do, students will be informed of 
the same. If we have any tasks on Honorlock, s tudents are therefore required to have a webcam with a 
microphone (either USB or mounted into your computer).   
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing 
requirements, to determine if they wish to remain on the course. Enrollment in the course is an 
agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course 
before the end of the drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctor ing. Therefore, students will be 
required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that 
recordings from any privat e residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the 
residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The 
University library and other academic sites at the University offer secur e private settings for recordings 
and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their 
instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and 
high-speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided pr ior to taking the proctored exam. 
To use Honorlock students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome 
extension  (Links to an external site.) ." For additional information please visit the USF online 
proctoring student FAQ  (Links to an external site.)  and Honorlock student resources  (Links to an 
external site.) .  
Students need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download the 
Honorlock extensio n. Your system also needs webcam, and you need to present your ID (any Photo 
ID would be enough you can simply use your USF ID) for verification to get into Honorlock Quizzes 
and Exams.  
 
Specific information / instructions will be provided in advance if an y Honorlock tasks are assigned.  
For additional information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.  
  
 
13 WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication : While students may use digital 
communication tools (WhatsApp, Gr oupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students, it is important 
to remember that academic integrity policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about 
the contents of tests is prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information 
about an examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.  
 
Laptop Usage:  You will need a proper laptop with a microphone  and webcam (either built -in or external) 
for use on this course. Describe your policies for using laptops throughout your course. Whether you 
dislike the use of laptops during your lecture, or whether you encourage using a laptop during 
discussion, or wish for all students using laptops to sit in a particular region of the classroom, feel free to 
state it here.  
 
Classroom Devices/Student Recording:  Not applicable. Describe your policies for using calcul ators, tape 
recorders, and other student -owned audio & technology devices for your course.  
 
Phone Usage: Describe your policies for student phone use in class, including texting or surfing the 
Internet. If you are using social media for a “backchannel” con versation, mention it here. If you would 
prefer that students not take photos/video/audio recordings of you, or of the whiteboard notes at the 
end of the class, state so here.   
 
XX. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy:  In this course , Course Participation serves as attendance Policy. Please refer to the 
section  on Course Participation.  
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic  Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically 
to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary 
materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy:  Complete your work and submit reports on time every time well before the 
respective deadlines on assignments.  
Per unive rsity policy and classroom etiquette, mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all 
classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab 
immediately to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive  on time for all class meetings. 
Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may 
suffer a reduction in their final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an on line system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy:  Not Applicable.  
Example: Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for this  policy 
and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly enforced.   
 
14  
Turnitin.com:  In this course Turnitin service will be utilized for all the assignments to prevent plagiarism. 
The University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service 
which allows student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to compare each student’s assignment quickly and easily  with billions of 
web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. 
After the assignment is processed, as instr uctor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if 
and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process 
visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students are 
requested to maintain confidentiality to keep their personal contact information (i.e., name, 
address, telephone) from being disclosed to vendors or other out side agencies. By your submission, 
you are also agreeing to release your original work for review for academic purposes to Turnitin. 
 
To comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying 
information, such as name, in the body of the document. While submitting to Turnitin, PLEASE 
REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID#. 
ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE NAME AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., 
“U12345678 Essay 1.docx”) before subm itting.  
 
Plagiarism:  
Definition of plagiarism  in USF Regulation 3.027.   
Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It 
includes submitting an assignment purporting to be the student’s original work which has 
whol ly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of the work, 
ideas, representations, or words of another person without customary and proper 
acknowledgement of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarif ication in 
any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue and will be plagiarized in any 
situation in which their work is not properly documented.  
a) Every direct quotation must be identified by quotation marks or appropriate indentation and 
must be properly acknowledged by parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or 
endnote.  
b) When material from another source is paraphrased or summariz ed in whole or in part in 
one’s own words, that source must be acknowledged in a footnote or endnote, or by 
parenthetical citation in the text.  
c) Information gained in reading or research that is not common professional knowledge must 
be acknowledged in a  parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or endnote.  
d) This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the use of papers, reports, projects, and other 
such materials prepared by someone else.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
2. Be sensiti ve. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs, or 
other general differences.   
 
15 3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this befo re sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep you r communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or  sarcasm. Since people cannot  see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XXI. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) 
to receive academic accommodation . For additional information about academic accommodations 
and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a com prehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Include information about  where students can find technical support.  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also c ontact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.   
 
16 Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brains torming to editing. Appointments are.  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXII. Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
Semester Classes Begin:    Mon , May 15 , 202 3 
First Day of Class for our course:  Sat, May  20, 202 3 
Last Day of Class for our course:  Sat, July 15 , 202 3 
Project #2 ends:    Fri, July 21 , 202 3 
Grades Visible in OASIS:   Fri, Aug 11, 202 2 
 