Data Mining, ISM 6136, Spring 2023, Room: BSN 231, Time: 12:30pm -4:15pm  
Mohammadreza Ebrahimi, Assistant Professor  
School of Information Systems and Management, University of South Florida  
email: ebrahimim@usf.edu , Office hours: Monday 4:30 -5:30pm (Room: CIS 2062)  
TA: Varun Krishna Ramakrishnan, varunkrishna@usf.edu  
Note: Thanks to Dr. Balaji Padmanabhan  for kindly providing the original material for the 
sylla bus and the entire course.  
Course Description and Objectives:  
The past few years have seen an unprecedented explosion in the amount of data collected by 
businesses  
and have witnessed enabling technologies such as database systems, visualization tools and 
statistical and  
machine learning algorithms reach industrial strength. These trends have spawned a new breed of 
business analytics systems that go significantly beyond reporting capabilities, to support 
predictive  
modeling and the extraction of business ins ights from data. These trends have also created a new 
role of  
“data scientists” who are professionals with expertise in the concepts and tools necessary for the 
skilled  
use of these systems. This course introduces fundamental data science concepts, techniq ues, and 
their business applications. The course will enable students to identify the strength and 
limitations of fundamental data science technologies, and to select and apply appropriate 
analytical methods that can provide business managers and informati on systems professionals 
with new insights useful for solving hard business problems using data -driven approaches.  
 
Course Materials/Textbook:  
No Text. Readings will be provided in Canvas in the appropriate modules.  
 
General Learning Outcomes:  
Upon complet ion of the course the student will be able to:  
Demonstrate understanding of specific data mining methods  
Describe different ways in which models can be evaluated  
Use data mining tools to build descriptive and predictive models  
Analyze a dataset using data analytics methods  
Identify data mining opportunities in existing data sets  
Describe global business scenarios where data and data mining can be applied  
Software:  
SAS Enterprise Miner, Weka, Azure ML Studio    
Schedule:  
Date  Topic(s)  Notes  
Feb 6  Data Analytic Thinking: Examples & Concepts   
Feb 13  Data Analytic Thinking; SAS E -Miner, AzureML & 
Weka    
Feb 20  Decision Tree Induction    
Feb 27  Model Evaluation   
Mar 6  Ensembles and Special Topics in Tree Induction  Individual Exercise 1 due  
Mar 13  No class  Spring Break  
Mar 20  Probabilistic Models  Team Project Proposal  
Mar 27  Neural Networks  Learning Reflection due  
Apr 3  Distance Based Methods (K -NN, Clustering and  
Recommender Systems)   
Apr 10  Pattern Discovery    
Apr 17  Research Examples  Individual Exercise 2 due  
Apr 24  Industry Examples  Exam  
May 1  Project Presentations  Final Group Project  
Submission due May 4  
  
Requirements and Due Dates:  
1. Exam (25%).  
The exam will be based on class notes and on relevant readings/discussions. Anything discussed 
in a 
class presentation or in any discussion can be tested in these - unless explicitly excluded.  
Exam will be held in class.  
 
2. Individual Data Mining Exercise 1 (15%).  
Deliverable: One 5 -minute video of you usi ng any tool to perform a data analytics exercise (use 
Weka preferably). The video should take a dataset and show some results from analyzing this. 
Make sure that one part of the video has you first talking to the camera so that the video shows 
your face an d voice before we switch entirely to seeing the screen. The content of the video is up 
to you, but the goal is to showcase some of your best skills in using the tool to analyze data. The 
videos will be evaluated based on:  
(1) clarity of the video, so produ ction quality needs to be reasonable to that I can actually see the 
screen and what’s being done clearly,  (2) how the video showcases some techniques you learned in the class,  
(3) novelty – how much it shows new things you might have picked up on your own,  
(4) your ability to interpret what you are doing as you speak so I can tell you understand clearly 
what you are doing,  
(5) how well you explain some of the output/results in the video, and  
(6) if the video tells one overall “story” about the data well.  
  
3. Individual Data Mining Exercise 2 (20%).  
Deliverable:  A video that you can upload to canvas (ideally as a link to an unlisted YouTube 
video).  
For this part you should use a different dataset than any of the ones you have used in the past in 
this 
course (i.e. do not use the data from the 5 minute video, and do not use the dataset that you are 
using in  
your project). You can select one from the UCI machine learning repository for example.  
Create and upload a video that shows you using Azure ML or SA S Enterprise Miner to analyze 
this dataset. The video  
must have the following parts:  
(1) It should demonstrate you using at least two of classification trees, neural networks, naïve  
Bayes, clustering and visualization to analyze this data. You need to just ify why you select your 
algorithms based on the data or domain characteristics.  
(2) In the analysis shown in the video you must clearly point out and discuss three different  
concepts that you learned in the class that you are applying in the analysis. For example, one  
example of a concept learned is that “concept: when the dependent variable is skewed you must  
look at the confusion matrix, not just the overall accuracy”. The onus is on you to make sure you  
clearly state in the video the concept that you are  showing as well as the “concept number” so I  
know at the end of the video that you have highlighted three concepts. Important: This has to be  
your own independent analysis, any video where your concepts look similar to another one will  
receive an automati c zero. You also cannot ask me or the TA to vet your concepts because that is  
part of this exercise, to see if you can identify important principles from this class that you can  
showcase.  
(3) You should keep the entire video to five to seven minutes in tot al. If you have to break this 
video  
into two or three parts and provide links to each part that is OK as well for me (since it is 
possible  
that you do this part in pieces as you work through this exercise).   
4. Final Group Data Mining Project (25%).  
In gro ups of 3 -4 identify a dataset on your own, perform a data mining analysis and summarize 
the results in an in-person presentation (7 minutes max) , and an 8-page single spaced paper  with 
font size of 12 (and with results included) due at the end of the term.  For presentation it is 
recommended that all team members present. The students are required to determine their team 
members no later than the third week of the class. The last slide of the project presentation 
needs to include a table that shows the exact  contribution of each team member. Including 
this table implies the approval of all team members.  Projects will be graded based on:  
(1) Novelty, interestingness and importance. Hence, new datasets, your own datasets and/or 
datasets  
relating to any importan t contemporary problem in business or society would be valued more. If  
everything is on GitHub, and you take it and do some minor tweaks it is not sufficient.  
(2) Managing presentation time (under 7 minutes), and managing the space in your report (8 
pages) . 
(3) Questions that frame the exercise and then recommendations at that end. Think of these two 
as 
steps before and after the data mining/machine learning component. What are the one or two  
central key business questions that a CEO or leader wants to know ? Make sure to structure your  
analysis to answer these one or two initial questions. At the end of the analysis, specifically 
based  
on your findings what recommendations would you have for the business leader?  
(4) Relevance of the work to the questions. In stead of showing everything you can do on that 
data,  
structure your work clearly to answer these questions. To this end, all your work should be  
relevant to the questions that were framed. Random visualizations and models being shown for  
the sake of being shown that do not add value should be eliminated from your report.  
(5) Depth of the methodology and attention to detail in the analysis (Justification of DM models, 
evaluation metrics, comparison to baselines, Interpretation of the results or meaningful 
visualizations that answer your proposed questions).  
(6) Quality of the final paper submitted (paper alone will have 30% of the grade for this 
assignment).  
  
5. Class Participation (15%).  Participation in class includes two activities: (1) learning reflections (5%), and (2) data mining 
event/topic discussion (10%).  
Learning Reflection, DUE Sep 27 (5%)  
The learning reflection serves as a brief but important mid -term evaluation that will be turned in 
on Sep 27. The format is a one -page document, descri bing in short complete sentences (not 
bullet points) what you learned and how it changed the way you might approach a data mining 
problem at work. All late submissions will be penalized one point per day of delay for that 
exercise/project but still need to  be made within a week of the deadline at the latest to get credit. 
Submissions beyond one week may not be evaluated for credit.  
Data Mining Event/Topic Discussion, DUE Nov 12 (10%)  
This activity has two parts: (1) a 5 –7-minute discussion by the student, a nd (2) a one -page 
document that summarizes the discussion.  
For the first part, throughout the semester, each student is required to discuss one preferably 
recent application of data -driven analytics (includes, but not limited to, data mining, AI or 
machine  learning) in today’s business domains (e.g., education, cybersecurity, health, finance). 
The sources for this activity could be white papers, newspapers, magazines, social media, or a 
related research topics of your interest from conference papers. The st udent is expected to 
instigate the discussion and provide enough key information so that others can participate in the 
discussion after you are done with your initial discussion. The discussion will be graded based on 
three main criteria: application, data , analytics and results:  
• Communicating the business application and the importance of the targeted problem,  
• Describing the characteristics of the data set(s) within the application domain, including 
the data sources, data types, dependent variables, indepe ndent variables, important data 
fields, etc.  
• Clearly communicating the applied analytics, the results, and the offered value.  
For the second activity, the students submit a one -page summary of their discussion after the first 
activity is complete. Full cre dit will be assigned only after you submit the summary document 
that includes the above information.  
In each week, 3 -4 students will be presenting. The presentation schedule will be determined in 
the first day of the class.  
  
Grading  
You are guaranteed at least the following grades if your final score falls as follows (your grade 
may be  
higher based on the relative performance of the entire class):  
97 and above: A+  94 - 97: A  
90 - 94: A - 
85 - 90: B+  
70 - 85: B  
50 - 70: A passing grade from B - and below  
A total score of below 50 will receive an F.  
Modules and Learning Outcomes  
Module 1. Data Analytic Thinking  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to provide examples of how businesses can use data intelligently.  
Students will be able to distinguish between patterns and models  
Students will be able to define “data mining”  
Students will be able to explain why there are so many different models  
Students will be able to provide a concrete example of how businesses can take an insight 
derived from  
data into opera tions.  
Module 2. Data Mining Process  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to describe limitations of secondary data analysis.  
Students will be able to list some potential pitfalls in data mining.  
Students will be able to describe the data mining proces s. 
Module 3. Decision Tree Induction  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to provide a high -level description of an algorithm to build decision trees 
for 
prediction.  
Students will be able to define node impurity and describe how it can be used in attri bute 
selection for  
tree induction.  
Students will be able to build decision trees from data using a data mining tool.  
Module 4A. Model Evaluation  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to list different metrics for evaluating predictive models.  
Students w ill be able to describe the train/validate/test methodology and the importance of 
partitioning  
data.  
Students will be able to describe how gains charts can be constructed for modeling responses to  
promotions.  
Module 4B. Week Five. Weka, Azure ML Studio and  SAS Enterprise Miner  
Videos)  Module 5. Other Representations: Ensembles, Neural Nets and Probability Models  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to describe how a trained neural network converts inputs to outputs  
Students will be able to build neural networks from data using a data mining tool.  
Students will be able to explain how Naïve Bayes probability models can be built from data  
Students will be able to build Naïve Bayes predictive models from data using a data mining tool.  
Module 6. Week Seven. U nsupervised Learning 1: Similarity -Based Techniques  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to describe how to cluster and classify using similarity -based techniques  
Students will be able to build clusters and similarity -based classifiers using a data min ing tool.  
Students will be able to describe how recommender systems work as a similarity -based 
technique.  
Module 7. Unsupervised Learning 2: Learning Patterns from Data  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to define association rules  
Students will be a ble to build association rules from data using a data mining tool.  
Students will be able to explain how association rules are learned.  
Students will be able to explain how randomization can be used to generate confidence intervals 
that can  
be used in rule learning.  
Module 8. Research, Applications and New Directions (If time permits)  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will be able to elaborate on the end -to-end application of the data mining process in 
real-world business applications in both research and industry . 
Students will be able to dissect research/industry case studies: identify the business application 
domain, data mining method, results from the analytics, and business insights derived from the 
analytics,  
Students will be able to determine new directions for data driven analytics in each case study.  
 
Module 9. Class Projects  
Learning Outcomes:  
Students will gain hands -on data analytics skills that allow them to conduct end -to-end data 
mining processes to address non -trivial business problems and  derive business insights that are 
useful to upper -level managers.  
Honor Code  
The policy of the University of South Florida on academic dishonesty states:  Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis of personal effort.  
Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers  
constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the university  
community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity  
with this rule. Cheating is defined as follows:  
(a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course -graded  
exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, may not look at the 
paper  
of anothe r student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test,  
(b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place,  
(c) taking an examination for or in place of another student,  
(d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, s ketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, 
graphs,  
maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own,  
(e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination 
material except  
as officially authorized, research papers, creati ve papers, speeches, etc.,  
(f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  
 
Covid -19 Procedures  
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation  
measures, including wearing face  coverings and maintaining social distancing during in -person  
classes. Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Office of Student 
Conduct and  
Ethical Development, and possible removal from campus.  
Additional details are availabl e on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page:  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
Class Recording  
In case the instructor decides to record the classes, they may be streamed online. Thus, student’s 
voice and video will be included in the class recordings. It is the student’s responsibility to make 
sure the privacy of their surroundings and background is maintained.  
 
Online Proctoring  
In case the exams are conducted using online proctoring tools. Keeping the audio and video  
(microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is a must. If the student is not willing to use  
these, the student is asked not to regis ter for this course. Any student may elect to drop or 
withdraw from  
this course before the end of the drop/add period. Online exams and quizzes within this course 
may 
require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or 
internal) with a  
microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device 
is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be 
done with  
the permission of any person residing  in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, 
students  
should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the  
University offer secure private settings for recordings, and students with concerns may d iscuss 
the 
location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must 
ensure  
that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and 
liability  
for violations of any third -party privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to 
taking the  
proctored exam. For additional information about online proctoring, you can visit the online 
proctoring  
student FAQ at  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
OTHER COURSE POLICIES  
Students who miss an in -class exam with prior permission of the instructor (due to documented 
emergency situations) will have to wait until the end of the term to take a make -up exam (only 
one will be gi ven and that will be based on the entire course material).  
Students who anticipate being late for any deliverable due to religious observance should inform 
the 
instructor by the end of the first week of class.  
A student who does not submit a deliverable on  time may be penalized up to the entire points 
unless  
he/she has documented proof of a medical emergency or explicit permission of the instructor.  
Students may not re -distribute any class material of the class in any outside forum without 
approval of the  
instructor.  
Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with Students with 
Disabilities  Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice 
prior to  
requesting an accommodation.  
Per US F Policy 10 -006: Registration Changes Including Course Change, Cancellations, 
Withdrawals, and Auditing,  an auditing  student  “attends the class as a listener.” Please identify 
yourself as an auditor in the course within the first two weeks, and let me know  if you wish to 
discuss your role in the classroom.  
For global USF policies that also apply to this course, please refer to: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/fa culty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this 
time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but ar e not 
limited to:  
Canvas, Teams, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility 
of the  
student to monitor the course site for each class for course specific communication, and the main 
USF,  
College, and department websites , emails, and MoBull messages for important general 
information.  
  
 