1  Course  Prefix  Number  Course  
Title  
CRN, Section #, Credit Hours  
College  Name,  Department  
Name  
   
  
 
      
 
Professor:  Dr. Timothy  Papp   E-Mail:  tpapp@usf.edu  
TA/GA:  TA/GA  name  (if applicable)  E-Mail:  TA/GA  E-mail  
Term:  Spring  2022  Dates:  1/09/23-5/5/23 
Delivery  
Method:  In Person  
Monday  6:30 -9:15PM  Location:  CIS  
1035  
Minimum  
Technical  
Skills &  
Requirements:  You must  have  reliable  internet  access  and the capability  to use Canvas.  This 
requires computer resources so  you should make  sure  you can use Canvas.  
Office  Hours:  To be arranged . I will also make myself available before and  after  each  class for  
questions.  
  
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome  to GEB 4890.  In this course  you will learn  the concepts  of Strategic  Management  
which will help you integrate the varying functional knowledge you have gained in other  
business courses (marketing, accounting, finance, etc.).  In turn, this will help provide an  
educational foundation that will aid you in understanding the organization from a CEO  level 
perspective. I am hopeful that this will benefit all of you as you progress in your  careers.  
 
THIS SYLLABUS IS ONLY A GENERAL GUIDE AND IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE DEPENDING ON 
HOW I FEEL THE CLASS IS PROGRESSING AND IF I THINK SOMETHING SHOULD BE ADDED  
TO, OR DELETED FROM , THE CLASS.  YOU WILL ALWAYS GET A CANVAS NOTIFICATION IF 
SOMETHING IS GOING TO BE CHANGED OR IS CHANGED . 
 
II. U
niversity  Course  Description  
This capstone course focuses on helping students develop a top- level executive perspective  
on managing  a business  and requires  students  to integrate  the theoretical  and functional  
area  concepts,  principles,  and skills  learned  in previous  coursework.  
 
 
 
III. Course  Prerequisites  
GEB 4890  
Strategic  Management  and Decision  Making 
CRN  25121, 903, 3 Credit  Hours  
Muma  College  of Business,  School  of Marketing  and 
Innovation  
COURSE  SYLLABUS  2  FIN3403,  MAN3025,  MAR3023  Course  requirement: Senior  standing.  
IV. Course  Purpose  
The course is intended to provide a unifying, integrating, and coordinating opportunity to  tie 
together concepts, principles, and skills learned separately in other, more specialized courses 
in business administration.  Specifically, the purpose of this course is for you to  utilize 
knowledge acquired from diverse course work and background experiences to seek  
approaches and solutions to real problems and policy issues in a variety of organizational  
situations.  The course begins with presentation of information on strategic management  
with vari ous assignments used for illustration and discussion.   As the course develops,  more  
analyses  via assignments  will occur,  using  the classroom  (virtual  or in person  depending  on 
the mode  of delivery)  situation as  a forum for discussion.  Information  presented in the first 
half of the course, as well as from previous courses should provide  you with various 
frameworks within which to view and discuss the various topics and assignments.  
 
Additionally, as this course is certified as an Ethical  Reasoning and Civic Engagement  
Capstone course, a High Impact Practice course, and an applied Service -Learning  
experience for the College  and USF General  Education Core  Curriculum,  students  will be 
held to the highest  level  of professional  performance  and behavioral  standards . 
 
V. Instructor  Contact  Information  and Communication  
 
Communication  in this class  will be regular.  Ideally  you should be checking and accessing  
email  and Canvas  daily, but  at a minimum  at least  multiple  times  per week.  
 
Outside of the classroom (physical or virtual) please contact me using my tpapp@usf.edu  
email address.  Using canvas to email me could cause delays as it is not uncommon for  
emails to get lost in cyberspace when using the Canvas mail function.  So, make sure to  
contact  me email -to-email  as opposed  to using  Canvas.  
 
When emailing  me please  include  your  section  number  and full name.  Please  send emails  
in a professional  format  and refrain  text message  style forms of  communication.  
 
VI. First  Week Attendance Policy  
Per USF policy first day attendance is required.  If you attend class but miss this portion of  
class I may not know it. Y ou need to notify me that you attended but missed roll call or  you 
will be considered absent and dropped  from  the course.  
 
VII. How  to Succeed  in this Course  
The best  way to  succee d in this class  is to attend  the lectures and remain  up to date  on all 
material and assignments.  This means you are aware of all deadlines (including exam  
dates) and prepare accordingly.  I will provide exam reviews in class and plenty of class  time 
will be provided to give additional guidance on the projects as well.  Another key is  asking  
questions.  If you are confused,  please  ask. I am here  to help you learn.  3  VIII. Course  Structure  
This course  will be delivered  in a traditional  face to face  format.  ATTENDANCE IN CLASS IS 
MANDATORY.   If you miss more than two ( 2) classes, I reserve the right to deduct 2 ½% off 
your final grade for every missed class beyond two.   
 
We may have one or two virtual classes in the semester.   We will discuss in class whether you 
prefer to have a substitute in- person professor or do class virtually.  Attendance will still be 
mandatory if we do a virtual session.  
 
IX. Course  Topics  
Include  (but not limited  to): 
Strategic  management  process  
Vision a nd mission  
Internal analysis  
External  analysis  
Business/competitive  level  strategy  
Corporate level strategy  
International  strategy  
Modes  of entry  
Corporate  governance  and ethics  
Strategy  implementation  including  culture,  structure,  and resource  leadership 
 
X. Student  Learning  Outcomes  
Upon  completion  of this course,  student  will demonstrate  the ability  to: 
1. Evaluate  the impact  of individual  choices  on local  and global  communities  by assessing  the 
impact of their proposed solution to a scenario based global business assignment on the  
local  environment  (#GEA1)  (GCP,  MCOB).  
2. Communicate  ideas  and information to diverse  audiences  by communicating  their  proposed  
solution to a service -learning  assignment and reflecting on the feedback received. (#GEA1)  
(GCP,  MCOB).  
3. Demonstrate  the ability  to comprehend,  express,  and adapt  to ideas  based on others’  
perspectives.  (#GEA2)  (ERCE,  MCOB)  
4. Work  across  and within  community  contexts  to achieve  a civic ai m through participation  in 
a service -learning project  (#GEA1)  (ERCE,  MCOB).  
5. Demonstrate  an ability  to recognize  ethical  and professional  responsibilities  (#GEA2)  (ERCE,  
MCOB)  
6. Propose  creative  solutions  for both  structured  and unstructured business  problems  in a 
complex,  global  environment. (#GEA2)  (MCOB)  
7. Integrate  cross -functional  business  skills  into sound business  solutions.  (#GEA2)  (MCOB)  
8. Describe  and discuss  the complex  relationship  between  an organization  and its 
environment.  
9. Demonstrate  the ability  to perform  internal  and external  analyses.  
10. Describe  and discuss  the strategy  formulation  process.  
11. Describe  and discuss  different levels  and types  of organizational  strategies.  
12. Identify  and assess the strategies  that an organization  uses  to manage  or adapt  to its 4  environment.  
13. Recommend  strategies  that an organization  may  develop  to manage  or adapt  to its 
environment.  
14. Describe  and discuss  the strategy  implementation  process.  
15. Recommend  processes  and activities  needed  for putting  strategies  into action.  
 
XI. Required  Course  Materials  
Thompson, Peteraf, Gamble and Strickland.  Crafting and Executing Strategy: The Quest for  
Competitive Advantage:  Concepts and Cases, 22nd Ed., 2020.  The ISBN number for a hard  bound 
copy of your text is 9781260075106.  The ebook version of the text is ISBN  9781260919097 and  
is available in  the USFSP bookstore  You must  have  one of these  exact  ISBN  numbers  or you will 
likely have  the wrong  and/or  missing content  in your  book.  
 
XII. Supplementary  (Optional)  Texts  and Materials  
Unless otherwise  indicated,  all materials  in Canvas  are required.  
 
XIII. Grading  Scale  
 
Grading  Scale  (%) 
93-100 A 
90 – 92 A- 
87 – 89 B+ 
83 – 86 B 
80 – 82 B- 
77 – 79 C+ 
73 – 76 C 
70 – 72 C- 
0 – 69 F 
 
XIV. Grade  Categories  and Weights  
 
Assessment  Percent  of Final  Grade  
Service  Leaning  Project  (GEA  1) (200  points)  20%  
Scenario  Based  Strategic  Management  Project  (GEA  2) 
(250  points)  25%  
Exam  1 (250 points)  26%  
Exam  2 (250 points)  26%  
Tableau  Assignment  3% 
Total  1000  points  100%  5  XV. Graded Components  Including  Assignments  and Exams  
 
Service  Learning  Project  (GEA  1) 
 
The Service  Learning  Experience  (SLE) requires  you to provide  service  to a local  non- profit  
organization. The SLE is a five -part process that includes investigating service  
opportunities, preparing for that opportunity through a “preflection,” planning your  
service intervention, performing your service, and reflecting on the experience. The  
speci fic disciplinary skills you provide to the non -profit organization are reinforced in the  
Scenario Based  Strategic  Management  Project.  
 
Specific  guidelines  for the service -learning  project  will be provided in a separate  document.  
 
Scenario  Based  Strategic  Management  Project (GEA  2) 
 
Students  will participate  in a scenario -based  project  assuming  the role of  top management  
of a company.  Using a real -world scenario, students will encounter a range of strategic  
issues that will require them to integrate knowled ge from various business functions (i.e.,  
accounting, finance, marketing, management, and information systems) to make a sound  
business decision.  In doing so students will analyze and integrate numerous business and 
industry  issues associated  with  the scen ario and take  into account  the various  perspectives 
of stakeholders involved before generating alternative solutions to the  scenario and then 
choosing the optimal alternative.  The final deliverable will be a 5 –7-page  paper.  
Preliminary assignments associated with the scenario will be completed throughout  the 
semester.  Specific  guidelines  for this project  will be  provided in a separate  document.  
 
Other  Grade  Components  
Exams  
You will be responsible for all material covered.  This includes  the applicable chapters of  
the book in addition to whatever is discussed in class.  All exams will be made up of  
multiple -choice questions  and all exams  will be timed.  As such a specific  window  of time  
will be provided when  completing exams.  
 
There will be two exams in this course.  The specific dates and times of the exam are  
provided in the assignment  schedule  of the syllabus.  Exams  are not comprehensive  and 
each one will cover material from chapter readings, case readings, and of course the  
chapter  lectures.  6  Tableau  Citizen  Data  Science  Certificate  Project  
This assignment is the 4th part of a four -course  sequence to complete this certificate.  
Students  will collect  and analyze  data  and then produce  visualizations/dashboards  to form  
conclusions and insights regarding that data. Each student will produce a 3 -minute video  
responding to a set of questions about their findings, and then upload the video to Canvas  
under the “Tableau Citizen Data Science Ce rtificate Project” tab. Additional details  regarding  
this assignment  will be provided in the  class  sessions  and in Canvas.  
 
XVI. Instructor  Feedback  Policy  & Grade  Dissemination  
 
I aim to provide  feedback  on all assignments as quickly  as possible.  However,  the range  of 
time needed varies greatly based on the type of assignment, quality of submissions, as  well 
as whether other pressing responsibilities that exist after submission deadlines.  For example, 
if a week is full of department and college mee tings it will take longer for  feedback.  Typically, 
exam scores are posted within a few days.  Feedback on major  projects may take up to three 
weeks or longer as these can be very time consuming to  grade.  All grades are posted in 
Canvas and I make sure to ke ep students informed as to  my expected  timeframe  for 
feedback.  7  XVII. Course  Schedule  
 
WK DATE  ASSIGNMENT  SCHEDULE  TEXT   
1 1/9 Introduction  to the course  
What  is strategy  and why is it important?   
Chapter 1 
2 1/23 Charting  a company’s  direction  
 
Review the cases  below  for class  discussion  
Case  #1 Mystic  Monk Coffee 
For your own practice  consider the following: Use the guidelines for a well worded 
mission and vision (from Ch 2) and create a vision statement for Mystic Monk 
coffee. Think about how your statement considers the elements needed in a well  
worded vision. 
Case  #2 Airbnb 2018 
For your own practice consider the following: Compare the business model (from  
Ch 1)  of Airbnb to that of a traditional  hotel company. Be sure to think  about both 
revenue and expenses. Chapter  2 
 
Practical  
Application 
3 1/30 Evaluating  a company’s  external  environment  
Case  #5 The Craft Beer Industry 
For your own practice consider the following: Assess the strength of buyers and 
suppliers, the threat of substitutes, and threat of new entrants in the craft beer  
industry? Rate each force (strong, moderate, or weak) and justify your rating (see  
Chapter 3). 
Service Learning Project Discussion  Chapter  3 
 
Practical  
Application 
4 2/6 Evaluating  a company’s  resources,  capabilities,  and competitiveness  
 
Case  #9 TOMS Shoes  
For your own practice consider the following: Assess the strengths, weaknesses,  
opportunities, and threats  for TOMS (identify  at least 4 for each part).  
Service Learning Project Discussion  Chapter  4 
 
 
Practical  
Application 
5  2/13 The five generic competitive strategies  
Case  #12 Chipotle 
For your own practice consider the following: What competitive strategy does  
Chipotle utilize (see Ch 5)?  Consider examples of the Chipotle organizational  
practices to  determine  your answer.  Chapter  5 
Practical  
Application 
6 2/20 Strengthening  a company’s  competitive  position  
Service Learning Project Q&A  
Exam  Review  Chapter  6 8  7 2/27 Exam  1; Covers  Chapters  1-6 Lectures  and Case  Readings  
Service  Learning  Project  Q&A   
8 3/6 Strategies for competing in international markets  
Ethics  and Strategy  
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Discussion  
 
Service  Learning Projects  Due by 3/6 at 11:59  PM Chapter  7 
Ethics  
Presentation   
 
 3/13 Spring Break - No Class   
9 3/20 Corporate  strategy  
Case  #24 The Walt  Disney  Company  
For your own practice  consider  the following:  What  type of corporate  diversification  
does Disney  utilize (see  pages  225 to 238 and Figure  8.2 for a discussion  of the types 
of diversification)? Consider examples of how the company does or doesn’t  have 
synergy  among  business  units.  Chapter  8 
Practical  
Application  
10    3/27 Building  an organization  capable  of good strategy  execution  
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Discussion  Chapter  10 
11   4/4 Managing  Internal  Operations  
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Discussion  Chapter  11 
12   4/11 Corporate culture and leadership  
Exam  Review  
 
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Work Session and Q&A  Chapter  12 
13   4/18 Case  #29 Starbucks  
For your own practice consider the following: What type of culture does Starbucks  
exhibit? See pages 353-359 for material on types of culture.  What organizational  
practices  does Starbuck’s  utilize to support  their culture?  
 
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Work Session  Chapter  10- 
12 Practical  
Application  
14 4/25 Exam preparation : Covers Lectures as well as the Ethics          Presentation 
and Case  Readings.  
 
Strategic  Scenario  Project  Work Session   
15 4/25 Strategic  Scenario  Project  Q&A  
Strategic Scenario Project Due by 4 -27 at 11:59PM    
16 5/1 Final  Exam  Final  
Assignment  
Due TBA  
    
* Note:  The Schedule  is subject  to revision  9  XVIII.  General  Education  Statement 
This course is part of the University of South Florida's General Education Curriculum. It is  
certified  for Ethical  Reasoning  & Civic  Engagement.  Students  enrolled  in this course  will be asked 
to participate in the USF General Education assessment effort. This will involve  submitting  
copies  of writing  assignments  for review  via Canvas.  
 
Undergraduate  Research  Attribute  
This course is attributed as an Undergraduate Research Course for integrating the high- impact  
practice of research that has been found to benefit students from varied backgrounds (AAC&U  
LEAP).  The Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR) defines this as follows: an inquiry or  
investigation conducted by an undergraduate student that makes an original intellectua l or 
creative contribution to the discipline.  In this course, you will conduct a project that enables  you,  
individually  or in groups,  to pose  or work  from  a defined research  question,  apply  methods  of 
inquiry to generate findings, and share the findings with others through presentation and/or  
publication.  
 
XIX. Integration  of This Course  into your  Academic  Experience 
This is the capstone course for the Muma College of Business.  This course will not only teach  you 
the concepts of strategic management but also allow you to gain experience applying the  varying  
functional  knowledge  you have  gained in other  courses.  This combined will provide  you with  a 
foundation  to examine  organizations  from  a top-level management  perspective.  
 
XX. Global  Citizens  Project  
GEB 4890 is certified  as a Global  Citizens  course  and may  be used  to fulfill partial  requirements  
of the Global Citizen Awards upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or  
higher).  
 
The USF Global Citizen’s Project is designed to develop students’ willingness and ability to  
engage  constructively  with  diverse  people,  places,  events,  challenges,  and opportunities.  The 
Service Learning Experience provides the opportunity for engaged community service that  
involves collaboration with a n appropriate agency or community organization, addresses the  
needs or concerns identified by the community organization, results in benefits to the  
community,  and involves  opportunities for critical  reflection.  
 
XXI. USF Standard  University  Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity  
and misconduct,  academic continuity,  food  insecurity,  and sexual  harassment  are governed  by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be acc essed at:  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
These  policies  are also listed  below.  10  Academic  Integrity  
 
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the  
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is  
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly  
defined,  academic  honesty  is the completion  of all academic  endeavors  and claims  of scholarly  
knowledge  as representative of one’s  own  efforts.  The process  for faculty  reporting  of academic  
misconduct,  as well as the student’s  options  for appeal,  are outlined in detail  in USF Regulation 
3.027.  
 
Academic  Grievance  Procedure  
 
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking  
courses  at the University  of South  Florida  an opportunity  for objective  review  of facts  and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim  that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status  has 
violated  published policies  and procedures,  or has  been  applied to the grievant  in a manner  
different  from  that used  for other  students.  
 
Disability  Access  
 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services  (SAS) 
(SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to  notify  
instructors  of accommodation  needs  at least  five (5) business  days  prior to needing  the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must acc ompany this request. Please visit the Student  
Accessibility  Services  website  for more  information.  
 
Disruption  to Academic  Progress  
 
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the  
academic  process  (USF  Regulation 3.025) is  defined as the act, words,  or general  conduct  of a 
student  in a classroom or  other  academic  environment  which in the reasonable  estimation  of 
the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy  
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic  
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or  
well -being  of self or other  persons.  
 
Food  and Housing  Insecurity  
 
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in  
affording  sufficient  groceries  may  be at risk of these  financial  issues affecting  their  performance  
in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed- A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or 
their  website),  or Student  Outreach  and Support  (socat@usf.edu or their  website).  11  Religious  Observances  
 
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their  
religious  observances,  practices and beliefs  (USF  Policy 10- 045).  The University  of South Florida,  
through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in 
view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communiti es 
comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take examinations  
as determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an  
examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious bel ief. However, students should  
review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as  
excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the academic  
requirements of a specific course. Students are  expected to notify their instructors at the  
beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced  
examination,  in accordance  with  this Policy.  
 
Sexual  Misconduct  / Sexual  Harassment  
 
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual  
harassment and sexual violence (USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a  
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender - 
based crimes inc luding sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This  
confidential  resource  can help you without  having  to report  your  situation  to either  the Office  of 
Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, a nd Equal  
Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in 
compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual  
harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalk ing, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or  
personally to an educator, he or she is required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation.  
Contact  the USF Center  for Victim  Advocacy:  813-974- 5757.  
 
Statement of Academic  Continuity  
 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  During  
this time,  USF may  opt to continue  delivery  of instruction through methods  that include,  but are 
not limited to:  Learning Management System, online conferencing, email messaging,  and/or an 
alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Learning  Management 
System for each class for course -specific communication, and the main USF,  College, and 
Department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general  information (USF 
Policy 6 -010). For additional guidance on emergency protective actions and hazards  that affect  
the University,  please  visit www.usf.edu/em  12  XXII. Course  Policies:  Grades  
 
Late  Work  Policy : 
Make -ups for exams are at the discretion of the professor and require appropriate  
documentation. Other than providing documentation for an emergency situation, all make -up 
exams  requests  require  advance  notice.  Further,  the burden of proof  for a make -up falls on the 
student.  Do not request  a make -up exam without  appropriate  documentation.  All other  
assignments (not including extra credit) turned in late will be assessed a 25% penalty if within 59 
minutes of the deadline.  If between 1 hour and 24 hours late, a 50% penalty will be  assessed.  
After 24 hours late no work will be accepted for credit.  The s ubmission times  recorded in Canvas 
will be utilized for all late work penalties.  If you have Canvas issues and the  deadline is close, you 
should email your completed work immediately and then finish your  submission process.  I will 
only grade papers submitt ed through Canvas.  The email will only  serve  to demonstrate  you 
attempted  to submit  your  work  on time.  
 
Extra  Credit  Policy : 
An extra credit opportunity may be provided.  If so, all students will have an equal opportunity  
to earn  the same  level  of extra  credit  as all other  student  regardless  of the pre-existing  grade  in 
the class.  No late submissions are  allowed  with regards to  extra  credit.  
 
Grades  of "Incomplete":  
 
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when  
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances  
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade  
Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the  
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be  
negotiated  and extended  by student/instructor  as long  as it does  not exceed  two semesters  for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades  
were  due for that  course.  An "I" grade not  cleared within  the two semesters  for undergraduate  
courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the  
grade  noted  on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : 
Students  have  the opportunity  to get feedback  before  assignments are turned in for a grade.  
Thus,  no rewrites  for a grade  revision  are provided.  
 
Make -up Exams  Policy : 
If a student cannot be present for an examination for a valid reason (validity to be determined 
by the instructor), a make -up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor  in 
advance that s/he cannot be present for the exam and the reason for missing is deem ed 
appropriate (ex. illness, death in the family, etc.).  Keep in mind that work and social  
engagements  are not valid  excuses for missing an exam.  If a make -up exam is given,  it will be at 
the convenience  of the  instructor  and will likely  be in essay format.  13   
Exam  Retention  Policy : 
For online exams, the exams will be retained in Canvas until IT deletes the course from my  
records  (typically  every  two years).  For in person  exams , I retain  the exams  for one year  and then  
they are destroyed.  
 
XXIII. Course  Policies:  Technology  and Media  (as applicable)  
 
See Course  policies  below.  
 
XXIV.  Course  Policies:  Student  Expectations  
 
Websites  that enable  Cheating  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable  
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply  
specifically to CourseHero.com as well as other similar websites – any use of these types of  
websites  (including  uploading  materials)  constitutes  a violation  of the academic  integrity  policy.  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors  
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as  
well  as an enormous  database  of student  papers  that grows  with  each  submission.  Accordingly,  
you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is  
processed, as the instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another  
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit  
http://www.tur nitin.com . All written  assignments  are due in Canvas  and will utilize  Turnitin.  
 Since Turnitin creates a large repository of papers to compare submissions, to protect your  
privacy you will not be required to include your  name on the file submitted.  Obviously,  I will be  
able to identify you because you are submitting these individually in the USF Canvas system and  
the submission is  linked  to your name  (Turnitin does not  retain  this information).  
 
End of Semester  Student  Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the  University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the  semester,  and the 
University  will notify  you by email  when the response  window  opens.  Your  participation  is highly 
encouraged  and valued.  
 
Netiquette  Guidelines:  
1. Act professionally in  the way you communicate.  Treat  your  instructors  and peers  with  
respect,  the same  way you would  do in a face -to-face  environment.  Respect  other  
people’s  ideas  and be constructive  when  explaining  your  views  about  points  you may  not agree  
with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There  
will be people in your  class  with  different  linguistic  backgrounds,  political and religious  
beliefs  or other  general  differences.  14  3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread 
on a discussion board  will allow  you to make  sure  your  message  is clear and thoughtful  
(and understood).  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before  
changing  the subject.  By keeping  the message  on focus  you allow  the readers  to easily  
get your  idea  or answers  they are  looking for.  
5. Be clear  with  your  message.  Avoid  using  humor  or sarcasm.  Since  people  can’t  see  your  
expressions  or hear  your  tone  of voice,  meaning  can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  and Discussion  Board  Guidelines:  
1. Use the subject  line effectively  by using  a meaningful  line of what  your  email  or 
discussion is about.  
2. Keep  your  emails  and postings  related to  the course  content.  You should not post  
anything  personal  on a discussion  board,  unless  is requested  by the instructor.  
3. Any personal,  course  or confidential  issues  should be directly  communicated  to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues  
should not  be posted  there.  
 
XXV. Course  Technology  & Student  Support  
 
Academic  Accommodations:  
Students  with  disabilities  are responsible  for registering  with  Students  with  Disabilities  Services  
(SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about  academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at  http://www.usf.edu/student -
affairs/student -disabilities -services/  . 
 
Academic  Support  Services:  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance  
undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support  
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at - 
http://www.usf.edu/student -success/  
 
Canvas  Technical  Support:  
If you have  technical  difficulties  in canvas,  you can find access  to the canvas  guides and video  
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also  
contact  the help desk  by calling  813- 974- 1222  in Tampa or emailing  help@usf.edu.  15  XXVI.  Important Dates  to Remember  
 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  
 
Example:  
Drop/Add  Deadline:  Jan 1 3 
Spring  Graduation  Application  Deadline:  Feb 6 
Withdrawal  Deadline:  March  25 
MLK  Day Observed  Holiday:  
Spring  Break:  Jan 1 6 
March  13 – 19 
Test  Free  Week:  
Final  Examination:  Apr 22 – 28 
Apr 29– May  4 
 
 
Covid  Statement  
 
I will deliver this class, as scheduled, in -person and on a temporary basis will provide a flexible  
component for students who are asked to isolate or quarantine, or feel unable to attend a class  
in-person for health reasons.  Please note: This flexible component is intended to be temporary  
and not the entire semester.  Importantly, all students will be required to attend in- person  classes 
to complete assessments and examinations. For students attending in- person as is  normal, I will 
teach in- person classes in the assigned classroom and on the scheduled day and time. For 
students who are unable to attend a class in- person for health reasons, I will provide  course 
content in a flexible format to support the student’s academic progression and success.  Please  
contact  me directly  if you have  questions.  In addition,  I will post  details  on how  a student  can join 
the class  remotely  in Canvas  if unable  to attend  in person for health concerns.  