Negotiating Agreement and Resolving Conflict  
MAN 6448 -901  
Spring , 2023 
 I. Instructor :  Dr. Charles Michaels   E-mail:   michael s@usf.edu  
Office :   BSN 3408   Home Phone:  (813) 949 -4115  
                           You may call my home (8 A.M. to 7 P.M.) on weekdays   
      Office Hours :   By appointment or chance  – please call. 
 
 Class meets from 6:30 until 10:15 on Mondays in BSN  230. 
 
II. Course Description :    
 
"Bargaining is everywhere.  That's the simplest way to put it.   More accurately, 
bargaining is a useful framework to interpret any number of different interpersonal 
interacti ons."    J. Keith Murnighan  
 
The course deals with effectively resolving conflict through the means of bargaining, 
negotiation, mediation, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution techniques and similar 
practices.  The best way to learn to barga in effec tively is to practice bargaining.  
Bargaining games  will be utilized throughout the course to provide this practice.  
 
III. Text :    
 
 Diamond, Stuart,  Getting More , Three Rivers Press, New York, NY, 2010.  
 ISBN – 970-0-307-71690 -3, eISBN – 978-0-307-71691 -0 any edition is fine.  
 
 IV. Evaluations of Student  Performance : 
 
There will be two (2) exams during the semester.  In addition, students will be divided 
into teams that will complete a group project to be presented to the class.  Group 
participati on grade s will consist of the average of the grades given t o you by the other 
members of your group.  Standard USF plus or minus grades will be given for the final 
grade Except for the grade of “A”.   The points given to each assignment will be as 
follows:  
Assignm ent                                  Points    
Exam I      120   
Exam II     120   
Group Project/Presentation             40   
  Conflict Journal      30   
Total Points     310 
 
 
 
 
 Negotiatin g Agree ment and Resolving Conflict  
MAN 6448 -901  
Spring , 2023 
 
 Exams:   The two exams will not be cumu lative and the format of each exam  will be 
discussed the week before it is administered.  There will be no make -up exams  except 
in cases of confirmed illness .  Students not able to take a scheduled exam for a 
legitimate  reason must notify the instructor in advance  so that a separa te exam c an be 
arranged.  If you miss a test , you will be required to do a library research project (20 -25 
pages typewritten) in its place.  All materials including lectures, readings, class exercises, 
discussions, and group presen tations are fair game for  exams.  
 
Team Project/Presentation:   The cla ss will be divided into teams.  Each team is 
responsible for choosing an organization or conflict situation and developing a class 
presentation based on some aspect of dispute resolution.   The presentation may be  used to 
demonstrate an organization's dispu te resolution system , describe a specific conflict 
situation, analyze the strengths and weaknesses of a conflict resolution system, make 
recommendations for change of the system, a case s tudy of a specific confli ct that t he 
organization handled, or a prese ntation of any other aspect of conflict resolution that the 
team chooses.  You may choose any type of organization (public, private, or non -profit).   
The presentations are to last approx imately 20 minutes and wi ll be fol lowed by a question 
and answer sess ion. 
 
Conflict Journal:   Each student will keep an individual conflict journal representing 
your internal monologue about the topics in this course.   The journal should have at least 
seven.  Your entries should c ontain yo ur brief observations and thoughts about the topics 
we cover each week . You don’t h ave to label the entries by week .   You just need a total 
of seven entries.   In the past most of the entries have discussed some conflict s ituation 
students have en countered  in their life outside of class.  Y ou may also write about one or 
more of the class exercises or your reactions to course readings or discussions.  The only 
absolute requirement is that your entry must relate to conflict r esolution and be type 
written.  There is no specific length requireme nt, but a typical journal is about six or 
seven pages, typed and double -spaced.  
 
Emergencies:   In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend 
normal operations.   During this time, USF may op t to cont inue delivery of instruction 
throug h methods that include Canvas  and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule.  
It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas  site for each class for course 
specific communication, and the main USF, Co llege, an d department websites, emails, 
and MoBull messages for important general information .  
 
Student Accommodations:   Students in need of academic accommodations for a 
disabil ity may consult with the office of Students with Disabilities Services to a rrange 
appropriate accommodations. Students ar e required to give reasonable notice prior to 
requesting an accommodation . 
 Negotiating Agreement and Resolving Conflict  
MAN 6448 -901  
Spring , 2023 
 V. Course Objectives  
 
THE STUDENT SHOULD BE ABLE TO:  
 
1. Differentiate between distributed and integrative bargaining and discuss the  
tactics you  would use with each.  
2. Describe th e basic bargaining process including terms such as BATNA and 
bargaining range.  
 
3. Discuss the differences between cooperative and com petitive bargaining 
strategies.  
 
4. Discuss the advantages and disadvantag es of repres entative negotiations and 
when they should be used.  
 
5. Discuss principled negotiations as proposed in “Getting to Yes” and determine 
when it should be used and how to ov ercome obstacles.  
 
6. Discuss how multi -party negotiations differ from two  party negot iations.  
 
7.  Describe when third pa rty interventions are needed.  
 
8. Discuss the process of mediation and when it is appropriate.  
 
9. Discuss the advantages and disadvan tages of arbitration.  
 
10. Describe the various types of arbitration varia nts such as mini-trials, med -arb, co -
med-arb, et c.  Discuss their advantages and disadvantages compared to arbitration 
and using the courts.  
 
11. Discuss the different types of indiv idual conflict resolution styles and in what 
circumstances they are approp riate to use . 
 
 In addition, students will get p ractice in carrying out negotiations as part of in -class 
exercises.  The goal is to develop real -life negotiating skills in each stude nt. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Negotiatin g Agree ment and Resolving Conflict  
MAN 6448 -901  
Spring , 2023 
 
 VI. Course Outline and Assignment Schedule  
 
Meeting   Topic or Activity                      Assignment  
 
Feb.    7 Introduction                               
 
 14 Introduction to Conflict Resolution   Text Chapters 1 -2 
 
 21 Bargaining & Negotiation    Text Chapters 3-4 
 
   28 Direct vs. Represented Negotiations    Text Chapters 5-6 
 
 March   7 Preparing for Bargaining , Reading   Text Chapters 7 and 9  
             Opponents  and discussion of Exam I              
    
 14-20 Spring Bre ak      Enjoy  
 
 21 Exam I  
 
 28 Multi -Party Negotiations    Text Chapters 10 - 12 
  Conflict Resolution S tyles  
   
April    4 Mediation & Et hics    Text Chapters 13 -15 
   
 11 Arbit ration &  Hybrid Processes    Text Chapters 8 and 16 
   International Dispute Resolution     
  And discussion of Exam II  
 
  18 Exam II  
 
 25 Team Presentations and Journals due.  
 
May   2 Team Presentations and Part icipati on Ratings  
 
 