MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 1 University of South Florida  MAN4600, 3 credit hours  International Management Section 521 Spring 2023 Online  Instructor: Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D.   Office: USFSM, C214A E-Mail: mkarlesky@usf.edu     Office Phone: 941.359.4647 Cell Phone: 717.405.8827     Office Hours: By appointment online  PREREQUISITES  MAN 3025.  COURSE DESCRIPTION  Examines the effects of international cultural differences on business practices within and outside the United States and provides methods to build synergies and establish/enhance competitive advantage via those differences.  COURSE TOPICS AND COURSE OBJECTIVES  This course provides an overview of the challenges and opportunities associated with organizational strategy and management in the global business environment. Students will gain an understanding of the processes and effects that both globalization and cultural influences have on contemporary business while learning how to formulate and implement strategy for international and global operations.   These objectives will be achieved through a variety of online assignments including readings, slides, interactive activities, videos, case studies, quizzes, exams, discussion forums, research, and reports (writing assignments). Students are expected to integrate knowledge they have gained from other business courses and to achieve higher levels of learning (the ability to analyze and integrate content versus the demonstration of initial knowledge and comprehension). Additionally, students are expected to strengthen their business communication skills and increase their awareness and sensitivity of cultural diversity.   LEARNING OUTCOMES  Upon completion of the course requirements, students will be able to:  1. Analyze the advantages and disadvantages of globalization.  2. Explain how global firms can operate both ethically and sustainably.  3. Demonstrate an understanding of cultural differences and tolerance of cultural diversity.  4. Identify cross-cultural communication and negotiation challenges and demonstrate ways to adapt in an international environment.  MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 2 5. Compare, contrast, and recommend successful modes of entry, business strategies, and choices for organizing firms involved in international operations.  6. Apply modern human resource techniques across foreign subsidiaries.  7. Understand the challenges of managing, leading, and motivating across cultures as well as ways to prevent and/or develop solutions to potential issues.   TEXT AND MATERIALS  1. REQUIRED: Charles W. L. Hill and G. Tomas M. Hult, Global Business Today (11th edition), McGraw-Hill, 2020. ISBN: 9781260780673. **There are multiple editions of this book; please make sure you buy the correct edition.  2. REQUIRED: McGraw-Hill Connect online access code (this access code will come with the e-book if purchased from the USF bookstore using the ISBN above).  3. REQUIRED: Canvas  4. REQUIRED: Access to a webcam with microphone (internal or USB) – see “Exam” section below   Notes:  • You absolutely need the access code for McGraw-Hill Connect. Some used or rental versions of the textbook may not come with the required access code.   CANVAS USE  The class syllabus is posted in Canvas, USF’s online course management system.  In this class, Canvas will be used for the orientation, posting course information, quizzes, exams, discussions, course communication, and submission of the final report.  Each Module provides the appropriate linkage to McGraw-Hill.  The Modules are set up so that you cannot start working on the next module without completing the required course assignments per module.  The discussion board assignments require you to interact with at least one of your group members.    *McGraw-Hill Connect will be used for course assignments.    Information on how to use Canvas is available at: http://usfsm.edu/elearning Canvas is accessible via the myUSF online web portal, or directly at http://learn.usf.edu.  PLAGIARISM PREVENTION  The University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service which allows student assignments be checked for plagiarism. I reserve the right to ask students to submit their assignments to Turnitin through Canvas. Assignments are compared automatically with a database of journal articles, web articles, and previously submitted papers. The instructor receives a report showing exactly how a student’s paper was plagiarized.  MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 3 PLEASE REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID#. ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE NAME AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., “U12345678 Essay 1.docx”) BEFORE SUBMITTING IT TO TURNITIN.   Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students are requested to maintain confidentiality as a way to keep their personal contact information (i.e. name, address, telephone) from being disclosed to vendors or other outside agencies. By your submission, you are also agreeing to release your original work for review for academic purposes to Turnitin.  GRADING, EVALUATION AND ATTENDANCE POLICIES    Attendance Policy  This course is entirely online and attendance will be discernable by the assignments and quizzes/exams completed. The first day attendance activity must be completed in order to keep your seat in this course. USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s drop/withdraw date.   Grade Components  Grade Component Description Total Points Percentage of Grade Interactive chapter assignments: video cases, case analyses, click and drag, decision generator  17 chapters with 2 assignments, each worth 10 points  340 34% Exams  4 exams, 100 points each  (lowest score will be dropped) 300 30% Chapter quizzes  17 quizzes, 10 points each 170 17% Discussion forums 9 discussions, 10 points each 90 9% Final paper  Due May 1st 100 10% TOTAL  1,000 100.0%     *Please note that some assignments are completed on McGraw-Hill’s Connect platform and some on USF’s Canvas (an actual computer as opposed to a tablet or smart phone works best with Connect).  However, there are links to all of the assignments in Canvas.  All work is due by 11:59pm on Sunday night of the assigned week unless otherwise noted.  See course schedule for details.  Canvas will be used for the lectures/lecture notes and for informational and communication purposes.  Both Canvas and MH Connect records and saves all student activity including grade information.  Students have 48 hours after the due date/grade date to contest the results of an assignment.  If Connect or Canvas does not record a grade (or an attempt on an assignment) by the due date and time, it will count as a zero towards the semester grade.  In other words, if you do not complete an assignment on time, you will have earned a zero.  MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 4  Final Grades  Percent Range Final Grade Description 97-100% A+ Excellent 94-96% A 90-93% A- 87-89% B+ Good 84-86% B 80-83% B- 77-79% C+ Average 70-76% C 60-69% D Poor Below 60% F Failure   Chapter Assignments   Each chapter will require the completion of two assignments on MH Connect, which may include video cases, click and drag exercises, case analyses, matching questions, decision-generator prompts, and self-assessments.  (The assignment type will vary by chapter).  Each assignment is worth 10 points.  Chapter Quizzes   Chapter Quizzes include 10 multiple choice questions per chapter, worth one point each.  There are no make-ups or extra credit for missed exams or quizzes.   Students are not allowed to work with each other on these assignments.    Discussion Forums  In the discussion forum assignments, students will be asked to comment on a topic related to the selected chapter or their self-assessment exercise results and to respond to at least one other person’s post in Canvas. Posts must be written thoroughly, thoughtfully, and professionally (without typos and grammatical errors) or points will be deducted. Students will be randomly assigned to discussion groups of approximately five students each, and each discussion post is worth 10 points.  Examinations  Examinations are given as indicated on the course schedule; they will open on Monday morning of the assigned week and close on Sunday night.  There will be four non-cumulative exams. Each exam covers four chapters and includes 50 multiple choice questions worth two points each. Students are not permitted to work with each other on exams. Exams are to be completed without the use of any books, notes, or other resources (i.e. smart phones, tablets, closed book, closed MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 5 notes). There cannot be any talking during the exam, or additional people in the room during the exam.  Once you begin the exam you must complete it in a single sitting.  The time limit is 60 minutes and you only get one attempt. The clock starts ticking as soon as you start the exam and does not stop. Make sure you have the time to complete the exam (and a strong, reliable internet connection) before you begin.  The lowest of four exam scores will be dropped.  There is no make-up or extra credit for missed exams.    Exams will be monitored through the use of Honorlock  All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.  To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.  Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third-party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third-party privacy concerns.  Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and high-speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. To use Honorlock students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome extension (Links to an external site.)." For additional information please visit the USF online proctoring student FAQ (Links to an external site.) and Honorlock student resources (Links to an external site.).   Final Report  In lieu of a final exam, students will be asked to write a report that is due at the end of the semester.  Details of the final report will be given in class during the semester. Make-up policy  No late work will be accepted (except in the case of an emergency for which you can provide documentation).  If you will not be able to turn in assigned work before the due date, you must contact me in advance for alternative arrangements.  All course work, except for the exams, is able to be completed well in advance of the due dates if you choose to work ahead.  The exams MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 6 will only be accessible during the week assigned.  If you do not contact me before the due date and you do not turn in the assignment, you will earn a zero for the assignment toward your course grade.      MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 7 USFSM AND USF SYSTEM POLICIES  Policies are available in the USFSM Catalog and at regulationspolicies.usf.edu  A. Academic Dishonesty:  The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavior.  Please review the USF System Regulation USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct.  B. Academic Disruption: The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy.   C. Contingency Plans: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USFSM to suspend normal operations.  During this time, USFSM may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for each of their classes for course specific communication, as well as the USFSM website, their student email account, and MoBull messages for important general information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 992-4231 is updated with pre-recorded information during an emergency.  See the Campus Police Website for further information.  D. Disabilities Accommodation:  Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must be given to the SAS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of Accommodation.  Contact: www.usf.edu/SAS.     E. Fire Alarm Instructions:  At the beginning of each semester please note the emergency exit maps posted in each classroom.  These signs are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency Evacuation Procedures.  F. Religious Observances:  USFSM recognizes the right of students and faculty to observe major religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes.  Instructors canceling class for a religious observance should have this stated in the syllabus with an appropriate alternative assignment.  G. Protection of Students Against Discrimination and Harassment: 1. Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting: USFSM is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004). 2. Other Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USFSM also is committed to providing an environment free from discrimination and MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 8 harassment based on race, color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 0-007).  The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report.  Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If a student discloses any of these situations in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally, he or she is required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or DIEO. The Deputy Coordinator for USFSM is Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Disability Services & Student Advocacy, 941-359-4714 or adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu.  Campus Resources: Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941-487-4254 Victim Advocate (24/7) 941-504-8599  List of off-campus resources: HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805 Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota: 941-365-1976 Centerstone: 941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059  H.   Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e-mail account.  Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.  GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR STUDENTS   Communication: Canvas message will be the official form of communication for this course.  When contacting the instructor, students can expect a response within one business day.  Keep in mind that many assignments are due on Sunday nights; if you have questions about these assignments, it is best to contact the instructor during the business week prior to the due date.  Academic Support Services:  The Information Commons provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e-learning specialists. Students are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 9 success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services (http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic-resources/information-commons/tutoring.aspx) which are provided at no cost to students.   Career Success Center: Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career-services.     MAN 4600 International Management Matthew Karlesky, Ph.D. Spring 2023 10 COURSE SCHEDULE (subject to change)  DAYS/DATES TOPICS WORK DUE Monday 9 - Jan Course Introduction Orientation exercises Sunday 15 - Jan Monday 16 - Jan Chapters 1, 2 & 3 Chapters 1, 2 & 3 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 22 - Jan Monday 23 - Jan Chapters 4 & 5 Chapters 4 & 5 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 29 - Jan Monday 30 - Jan Exam #1 Exam 1:  Chapters 1 through 5 Sunday  5 - Feb Monday 6 - Feb Chapters 6 & 7 Chapters 6 & 7 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 12 - Feb Monday 13 - Feb Chapters 8 & 9 Chapters 8 & 9 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 19 - Feb Monday 20 - Feb Exam #2 Exam 2:  Chapters 6 through 9 Sunday 26 - Feb Monday 27 - Feb Chapters 10 & 11 Chapters 10 & 11 Quizzes and Assignments  Sunday 5 - Mar Monday 6 - Mar Chapters 12 & 13 Chapters 12 & 13 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 12 - Mar Monday 13 - Mar SPRING BREAK Sunday 19 - Mar Monday 20 - Mar Exam #3 Exam 3:  Chapters 10 through 13 Sunday 26 - Mar Monday 27 - Mar Chapters 14 & 15 Chapters 14 & 15 Quizzes and Assignments Sunday 2 - Apr Monday 3 - Apr Chapters 16 & 17 Chapters 16 & 17 Quizzes and Assignments  Sunday 9 - Apr Monday 10 - Apr Exam #4 Exam 4:  Chapters 13 through 17 Sunday 16 - Apr Monday 17 - Apr Work on Final Report  Sunday 23 - Apr Monday 24 - Apr  Final Report Due Sunday, April 30th Sunday  30 - Apr Note:  The last day for a student to withdraw is March 25th.  