© 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 QMB -6305 -350 
Managerial Decision Analysis  
Spring 2023 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Ronald K. Satterfield      
Office:   CIS 2054  
Office Hours:  Announced on Canvas.   All office hours will be held via MS -Teams.  
E-mail:  rsatterf@usf.edu  (The Canvas email function is a bit cumbersome.  Please email 
me directly at this address rather than going through Canvas.)     
 
 
TEXTBOOK  
Jank,  Wolfgang,  "Business Analytics for Managers", Springer, 2011 (ISBN 978 -1-4614 -0405 -7).  
You can obtain this boo k directly at  https://www.amazon.com/Business -Analytics -Managers -Use-
R/dp/1461404053/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=wolfgang +jank&qid=1651935209&sr=8 -1 
 
SOFTWARE   
We will use the software R for analyzing and mining our data. R is free! In fact, R is an open -
source based software and as such grows much faster than any commercial software solution. R is 
one of the most powerful and popular software solutions for minin g business data. In fact, large 
analytical companies such as Google and AT&T use R. R is also becoming more and more popular 
among government agencies (such as the DOD). R being both powerful  and free makes it a 
winning proposition for many companies, espe cially during times of tightening budgets and 
financial stress.   To simplify use of R even more for you we will use the graphical user interface 
(GUI) R Commander for this course.  PLEASE   CHECK OUT THE FIRST COURSE MODULE 
M0 ON HOW TO INSTALL R AND R COMMA NDER.  
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION  
 
About the course.   The nature of business is changing. Due to increasing computing power and 
companies amassing massive amounts of data, business decisions are becoming more and more 
data driven. Moreover, not only is more and more data becoming available, the nature of the data 
is also changing. While in the past, most data arrived in the form of static flat tables, data is now 
becoming increasingly dynamic, streaming and augmented with information that was not available 
previously (geographical information, temporal information, network information). Moreover, 
data has become more complex and is now available at different layers or hierarchies. For instance, 
while companies may have individual -level information about their employees, this individual 
layer is often augmented by company -level information across different industries. Data is also 
different in that it may combine static and dynamic information. For instance, data from online 
auctions involve static attributes (s uch as the product sold) as well as dynamic attributes (such as 
the incoming bids or the price changes during the auction). Combining static and dynamic 
information is not trivial and calls for new methods suitable to extract all information that such 
data carry.   In this course, we introduce the basics of statistics.   We discuss how to use statistics to 
understand business problems, and to assist in decision making.    
 
Objectives : In this class, you will learn different methods and models to address such d ata 
challenges. Starting with methods for data exploration and -visualization, you will learn how to 
build statistical models around the patterns in your data. In addition, we will also discuss how to 
© 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 incorporate uncertainty into decision -making via confid ence intervals and hypothesis testing. The 
course is very hands -on and will involve several data -driven projects that are to be solved using 
state-of-the-art data mining software.  
Learning Outcomes: Several learning outcomes are anticipated from this cours e: 
• To apply methods and concepts related to statistical modeling and statistical data mining . 
• To identify and discuss when to use a particular method and to learn about its limitations . 
• To implement methods and concepts on real data using state -of-the-art software . 
 
About the instructor .  The instructor for your course is Dr. Ronald K Satterfield, a long -time faculty member in the 
Muma College of Business at USF.  Dr. Satterfield has taught a number of different courses in a variety of formats 
to a variety of audiences in his time at the University. His primary involvements are with the MBA, MS -BAIS, and 
DBA degree programs.  He has taught Managerial Decision Analysis on number of times in live, hybrid, and all -
online formats. While Dr. Satterfield is the In structor of Record for this offering of the course, the course materials 
were built by Dr. Wolfgang Jank of the Muma College of Business at USF.  Dr. Jank is a world -renowned 
statistician known for his prowess in both teaching and research in the field. Th e course follows Dr. Jank’s design 
and it is his voice you will hear on the course lecture videos. Should you have any questions about the course 
material or assignments please direct them to Dr. Satterfield as he is your designated instructor for the cour se. 
  
 
COURSE ASSIGNMENTS  AND DELIVERABLES  
PLEASE NOTICE THAT ALL ASSIGNMENTS ARE INDIVIDUAL ASSIGNMENTS; 
NO TEAM WORK OR OUTSIDE HELP IS ALLOWED  
• Homework Quizzes : Four homework quizzes are to be completed individually by 
each student. These quizzes involve you taking a data set and using statistical analysis 
tools to answer a series of multiple -choice questions. The primary purpose of these 
assignments is  to give you students to have the opportunity to practice the concepts 
learned in class, and to  show your ability to use them with real data and real software.  
• Online Discussion : Our online discussion will be facilitated via Canvas. The 
discussion will focus on hig h-level aspects of analytics and data mining. Students will 
be asked to share both their own experience with analytics as well as their opinion 
based on research of companies in the Tampa Bay area and beyond. Our online 
discussion has four different compon ents, distributed over the four modules of this 
course.  
o Etiquette Guidelines:  
o General Communication Guidelines 1. Act professionally in the way you 
communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way 
you would do on a face -to-face envi ronment. Respect other people’s ideas 
and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not 
agree with. 2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your 
ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different 
linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general 
differences. 3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an 
email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make 
sure your message is clear and thought ful. Avoid the use of all capital 
letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read. 4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete 
your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus  
you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 for. 5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since 
people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can 
be misinterpreted.  
o Email and Discus sion Board Guidelines: 1. Use the subject line 
effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is 
about. 2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You 
should not post anything personal on a discussion board, un less is 
requested by the instructor. 3. Any personal, course or confidential issues 
should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The 
discussion boards are public spaces; therefore any issues should not be 
posted there.  
 
• Course Project:   
Your course project consists of a data -driven business problem of your choice. To 
that end, please identify one (or more) research questions and collect data relevant to 
answering those questions. More specifically, please carefully describe the business 
problem that you are trying to solve, why it is important and relevant, and why it is 
difficult (because if it wasn't difficult then there probably wouldn't even be a reason 
to address it). Then identify and describe the data (and its source) that you will use  to 
answer your research questions. The goal of this project is that you use all of the tools 
learned in this course (i.e. data exploration, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing 
and regression models) to answer your research questions.   
This project is  divided into two parts:   
- In the first part, you make a video proposal for your project.   
- In the second part  you will present your final project findings. In this you will 
demonstrate the analyses you have undertaken and explain the results.  
 
 
GRADING  
Your final grade for the course is based on your performance outlined above. The weights given 
to each of these components are as follows : 
 
First Day Attendance & Getting Ready  2% 
Homework Quizzes (4)  40% 
Online Discussions (4)  28% 
Course Projec t 30% 
 
For each component, you will receive a numerical score, but not a letter grade. The overall letter 
grade for the semester will be determined by the table below.  
  
 © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Letter Grade  Percent Score  
A 93% - 100% 
A- 90% - 93% 
B+ 87% - 90% 
B 83% - 87% 
B- 80% - 83% 
C+ 77% - 80% 
C 73% - 77% 
C- 70% - 73% 
D+ 67% - 70% 
D 63% - 67% 
D- 60% - 63% 
F Below 60%  
 
 
COURSE SCHEDULE  
Course Exercise  Due Date  
First Day Attendance Quiz  1/12/23 
Getting Started Quiz  1/12/23 
Module 1 Quiz  1/18/23  
Module 2 Quiz  2/2/23  
Module 3 Quiz  2/17/23  
Project Proposal Due  2/17/23  
Module 4 Quiz  3/3/23  
Final Project Deliverable Due  3/3/23  
  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Course Policies  
 
Late Work Policy   
There are no opportunities in this course for late submission of assignments or to do 
“make -up” work if assignments are missed. A late assignment is lost points. Please plan 
accordingly.  
 
Extra Credit Policy   
There are no opportunities for extra credit in this course.  Your focus should be on the 
primary work in the course.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete"   
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student when 1) arrangements are made prior to the 
end of the semester, 2) in the judgment of the instructor a valid reason is offered for 
granting an Incomplete, and 3) a clear path to a standard grade is agreed to by the 
instructor and the student which will result in successful completion of course 
requirements by the end of the succeeding semester.  “I” grades not replaced  by the end 
of the  subsequent  semester will be changed to “IF”  and are a failing grade for the course . 
 
Email  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students between live class 
meetings will be email.  “Blast emails” will occasionally be sent by the inst ructor to all 
students via Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with questions at any 
time.  Please anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
 
Canvas  
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in  weekly assignments 
and return graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks 
related to this or other courses in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You 
may also contact USF's IT support at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Laptop Usage  
Laptop/Tablet usage is encouraged in this course given the nature of the material.   
 
Classroom Recording  
Audio and/or video recordings of lectures are prohibited, as is the live streaming of 
lectu res or dissemination of lectures via conference calling technologies.  
 
Phone Usage  
Students are asked to place their mobile phones on “silent” and to step outside the 
classroom to take any important calls.   
 
Academic Integrity  and Academic Misconduct  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s 
commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university 
community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which 
include h onesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the 
completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity 
violation and related academi c sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and 
be applied to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless 
otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.   The process for 
faculty reporting of academic mi sconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, 
are outlined in detail in USF System Regulation 3.027.  
 
In our course assignments the professor h as several methods for penalizing those who 
engage in academic misconduct.  Among these methods the professor can 1) award 0 
points for an assignment on which a student has engaged in misconduct, 2) award an F 
in the entire course, or 3) award a special FF  grade in the course.  An FF appears 
permanently on the student's transcript as a special designation showing the student 
failed the course for reasons of academic misconduct.  
 
Disruption to Academic Process   
Disruptive students in the academic setting hin der the educational process. Disruption 
of the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a 
classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from  the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, 
safety, or well -being of self or o ther persons.  
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures   
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for 
objective review of facts and events  pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. 
An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that 
affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and 
procedures or has been applied to th e grievant in a manner different from that used for 
other students.  
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to  
notify instructors of accommodation requests at least 5 business days prior to needing 
the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  
 
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including 
sexual harassment and sexual violence ( USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for 
Victim Advocacy and Vio lence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can 
talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual 
assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can 
help you without having to re port your situation to either the Office of Student Rights 
and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal 
Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in 
compliance with Title IX and und er the USF System Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in 
class, in papers, or to me personally,  I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for 
investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: 
(813) 974 -5757.  
 
Attendance Policy   
Students are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular attendance and on -
time a rrivals to class lectures.   
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate 
their religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you 
should plan your allowed abs ences to include those dates.  
 
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including 
sexual harassment and sexual violence ( USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for 
Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can 
talk about incidents of sexual hara ssment and gender -based crimes including sexual 
assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can 
help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights 
and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the  Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal 
Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in 
compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in 
class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for 
investigation. Contact the USF Center for Vic tim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: 
(813) 974 -5757.  
 
Attendance Policy   
Students are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular attendance and on -
time arrivals to class lectures.   
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that  the University will reasonably accommodate 
their religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you 
should plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  
 
 
 
 