






Semester: Summer 2023
Class Meeting Days: 100% online
Class Meeting Time: 100% online
Class Meeting Location: Canvas/Microsoft Teams
Instructor: Dr. Ehsan Sheybani
Office Location: Sarasota-Manatee Campus – C222
Office Hours: By Appointment Only
Phone Number: 941-359-4387
Email: sheybani@usf.edu

PREREQUISITES: CGS2100 is a prerequisite for this course.

COURSE DESCRIPTION: An introduction to the language, concepts, structures and processes involved in the management of information systems including fundamentals of computer-based technology and the use of business-based software for support of managerial decisions.

TEXT AND MATERIALS: Includes (but not limited to):
MIS10 by Bidgoli, Cengage. This book is available at:

Cengage - Cengage Unlimited, 1 term (4 months) Printed Access Card
9780357700037 ($119.99), OR
Cengage - Cengage Unlimited, Multi-term (12 months) Printed Access Card
9780357700044 ($179.99).

COURSE TOPICS: This course covers wide variety of topics within the Information Systems discipline. It gives the students a taste of these topics without going into too much depth about any of them. It introduces a lot of technology related jargon to the students.
Information Systems Overview
Computers: The Machines behind Computing
Database Systems, Data Warehouse, Data Marts
Personal, Legal, Ethical and Organizational Issues of Information Systems
Protecting Information Resources
Data Communication Delivering Information Anywhere and Anytime
The Internet, Intranets and Extranets
E-Commerce
Global Information Systems
Building Successful Information Systems
Enterprise Systems
Management Support Systems
Emerging Trends, Technologies and Applications
Using Excel for Business Decision Making
Using Access for Business Processes
HTML basics

COURSE OBJECTIVES: Students will:
Become familiar with the major types of information systems at work in organizations
Gain hands-on experience working with technology to solve problems
Think critically by analyzing case studies and business scenarios

COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: 
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:
Demonstrate knowledge of the various types of information systems used in organizations, the business value of these systems, and the expertise necessary to manage these systems. This knowledge will be evaluated through examinations.
Create basic web pages using both a simple text editor and an online interactive development environment.
Design an appropriate data organization scheme and implement it.

COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media

Canvas: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974-1222 or help@usf.edu. The course will include recorded lectures, reading assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, discussions and homework (posted on CANVAS). 

Email: how it will be used, who will communicate with whom, who answers technology questions, expected response time, will you check it on weekends, etc.

GRADING POLICIES
Late Work Policy: There are no make-ups for in-class writing, quizzes, the midterm, or the final exam. Essays turned in late will be assessed a penalty: a half-letter grade if it is one day late, or a full-letter grade for 2-4 days late. Essays will not be accepted if overdue by more than four days.

Extra Credit Policy: An assignment or two, or other activities may have an extra credit component associated with them. Points earned in this manner will not be included in the assignment or exam grade or in the final course average. These will be considered after course letter grades have been tentatively assigned. Extra credit may result in an increase in your final letter grade, especially in borderline situations, and will never reduce your grade. For this reason, you should take full advantage of extra credit opportunities.

Incomplete Policy: An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.

Make-up Exams Policy: A make-up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor in advance that s/he cannot take the exam on the assigned date. 

Exam Retention Policy: After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class and collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, and then they will be destroyed. 

Essay Commentary Policy: Commentary on essays will be delivered in written format, via canvas. 

	Final Examinations Policy: All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination policy.

	Late Assignment Submission Policy: All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. of the due date. Late assignments will not be accepted unless prior permission has been granted by your Instructor. It is okay for students to work ahead and complete all assignments, labs and tests if they desire, but no makeups or extra credit will be offered.

GRADING SCALES
USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s drop/withdraw date (please refer to important dates on page 1 of this syllabus). Student performance for this course will be evaluated based on tests, assignments, quizzes and certification practice exam, as detailed below. Below is a summary for the determination of the final grade and an explanation for each component:


A+ = 97-100; A=94-96; A- =90-93; B+ = 87-89; B=84-86; B- = 80-83; 
C+=77-79; C = 74-76; C - + 70-73; D = 60- 69; F = 59 or below

All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms.  Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period. Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.  Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third-party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third-party privacy concerns.  Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about online proctoring you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.
   
COURSE POLICIES: Student Expectations

Attendance Policy: There is no live lecture attendance requirement. Everything will be placed on CANVAS.

Course Hero / Chegg Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 

End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is expected and valued. 

Turnitin.com: In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.

Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it. Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual Freedom Act” can be found online.

Class Recording
For any of the classes that are recorded and streamed online, student’s voice and video will be included in the class recording. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their surroundings and background is maintained. 

STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx 

COVID-19 PROCEDURES
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID-19 mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing during in-person classes.  Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development, and possible removal from campus. Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx

USF SYSTEM POLICIES
Policies are available at regulationspolicies.usf.edu

Academic Dishonesty:  The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavior.  Please review the USF System Regulation USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct.

B.	Academic Disruption: The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy. 

C.	Contingency Plans: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for each of their classes for course specific communication, as well as the USFSM website, their student email account, and MoBull messages for important general information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 992-4231 is updated with pre-recorded information during an emergency.  

D.	Disabilities Accommodation:  Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of Accommodation.  Contact Information:  https://www.usf.edu/diversity/equal-opportunity/disability-services-contacts.aspx
		
E.	Evacuation Instructions:  This is a 100% online class but if you do come to campus often then please note the emergency exit maps posted in classrooms.  These signs are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. 

F.	Religious Observances:  USFSM recognizes the right of students to observe major religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes.  

Protection of Students Against Discrimination and Harassment:
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting: USFSM is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004).
Other Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USFSM also is committed to providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 0-007).


The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report.

Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If a student discloses any of these situations in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally, he or she is required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or DIEO. 

H.   Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e-mail account.  Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.

GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS 
Academic Support Services: 
The Information Commons provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e-learning specialists. Students challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services (http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic-resources/information-commons/tutoring.aspx) which are provided at no cost to students. 

Career Success Center:
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career-services.

LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES


COURSE FAQ
How to communicate with me? 
You can either (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) call/text me or (iii) set up an appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email. The emails should be composed professionally and the language should be courteous and respectful. 
 
How NOT to communicate with me? 
Please do not email me from a non-USF email account. 
Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted through Canvas. 
Please do not reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, unless your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous text from that email, if your email pertains to something else. 

How will I communicate with you? 
I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should arrive in your inbox. If you send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send me an email directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to reply to your emails within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Junk Mail folder so if you have not received my response within 24 hours, please either resend your email or call my office phone number and leave a message in case I am not in my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments through Canvas.

How to Succeed in this Class?  
Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and announcements. I encourage you check them daily. 
Read the syllabus:  It is a lot of trouble to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I had a reason for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and expectations and have your questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a more productive semester. Please read every word in this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me questions. 
Complete the reading assignments:  You will get a lot more out of this class if you complete the assigned readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never complete it or try to cram it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, unsatisfactory grades are due to procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete the work for this class.
Watch the recorded lectures: Each module will include a short video. All my lectures are prepared by me and as a result contain topics that I think are the most important in the course. So, please watch them.
Do not procrastinate on completing assignments:  You cannot pass the course without doing at least most of the assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you get behind, you will find it very difficult to catch up.
Complete the quizzes: Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage you to complete them by the due dates.

COURSE SCHEDULE:


