Clinton DanielAssociate Professor of Instructioncedanie2@usf.eduRoom: CIS 2008Phone: (813) 974-6765VitaClinton Daniel is an associate professor of instruction in the School of Information
               Systems and Management teaching undergraduate and graduate level courses in business
               intelligence, business data communications, business application development, distributed
               information systems, managing information resources, case method publications, systems
               analysis and design, and cybersecurity. Additionally, Daniel teaches special topic
               courses promoted by USF business partners in cybersecurity, healthcare analytics,
               computational problem solving, and various programming languages. He is currently
               the academic director of the Undergraduate Business Analytics & Information Systems
               program.In July of 2022, he was awarded a $630,000 Florida Department of Education grant (Cybersecurity/IT
               Educational Pathways) through a joint endeavor with the Florida Center for Cybersecurity
               titled “The Modernization of Digital Information Technology”. This grant project is
               funded throughout 2023 and is designed to modernize an introductory 8th – 12th grade
               State of Florida course titled, “Digital Information Technology” with updated concepts
               in information technology, cybersecurity, and other skills needed in today’s high-tech
               business environment. More information about this grant can be found here:https://www.usf.edu/business/news/2022/07-22-cybergrant-daniel.aspxBefore joining the USF faculty in 2014, he worked in several information technology
               roles for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, including managing a data warehouse
               for seven VA medical centers and developing business intelligence solutions for the
               VA and its customers. He had a prior career in physical therapy, both in private practice
               and in the U.S. Army as a combat medic and physical therapy specialist.Daniel earned a Doctor of Business Administration degree in 2018 and a master's degree
               in Management Information Systems in 2006. Both degrees were awarded from the University
               of South Florida. His current research interests include design science research,
               social media analytics, case research, and cybersecurity.