Seçkİn ÖzkulAssistant ProfessorDirector, Supply Chain Innovation Labsozkul@usf.eduRoom: BSN 2401 FPhone: 813-974-2530VitaSeçkin Özkul is an assistant professor in supply chain management in the School of
               Marketing and Innovation. He spearheads theSupply Chain Innovation Lab, which brings industry and academic supply chain management experts together to work
               on research projects tackling some of the industry’s biggest challenges. Özkul is
               also an affiliated faculty member with the USF Center for Urban Transportation Research.Özkul has extensive experience in funded research project management as principal
               investigator and conducted research in the areas of operations management, supply
               chain and logistics modeling/optimization, logistics activity center location/site
               selection optimization as well as freight mobility and planning over the past decade
               for national, state and locally funded research projects for both public and private
               entities. He is a licensed professional engineer in the state of Florida with more
               than 12 years of experience in the freight transportation/logistics field. Özkul was
               appointed to the Florida Freight Advisory Committee in 2019 for a term of three years
               and advises the Florida Department of Transportation’s freight planning efforts.Özkul earned a PhD in engineering with a focus on freight transportation/logistics
               operations, from the University of Florida, a master’s degree in marketing with a
               concentration in supply chain management and a master's degree in engineering from
               USF, and a bachelor's degree in engineering from Auburn University.TeachingSCM 4420 - Supply Chain AnalyticsMAN 4504 - Operations and Supply Chain ManagementSCM 6206 - Logistics Systems and AnalyticsGEB 6527 - Lean Six SigmaQMB 6603 - Operations Management and Quality EnhancementRESEARCHMintsis, E., Vlahogianni, E. I., Mitsakis, E., & Özkul, S. (2021). Enhanced speed
                     advice for connected vehicles in the proximity of signalized intersections.European Transport Research Review, 13(1), 1-14.Mardani, A., Kannan, D., Hooker, R.E., Özkul, S., Alrasheddi, M., Tirkolaee, E. B.
                     (2020). Evaluation of Green and Sustainable Supply Chain Management Using Application
                     of Structural Equation Modelling: A systematic review of the state of the art literature
                     and recommendations for future research.Journal of Cleaner Production, 249, 119383.Kocatepe, A., Özkul, S., Ozguven, E. E., Sobanjo, J. O., & Moses, R. (2019). "The
                     Value of Freight Accessibility: A Spatial Analysis in the Tampa Bay Region."Applied Spatial Analysis and Policy, 1-20.Mardani, A., Hooker, R. E., Özkul, S., Yifan, S., Nilashi, M., Sabzi, H. Z., & Fei,
                     G. C. (2019). "Application of Decision Making and Fuzzy Sets Theory to Evaluate the
                     Healthcare and Medical Problems: A Review of Three Decades of Research with Recent
                     Developments."Expert Systems with Applications, 137, 202-231.Mardani, A., Fan, Y.V., Nilashi, M., Hooker, R.E., Özkul, S., Streimikiene, D., Loganathan,
                     N. (2019). "A Two-Stage Methodology Based on Ensemble Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference
                     System to Predict Carbon Dioxide Emissions."Journal of Cleaner Production, 231, 446-461.view moreSeman, N. A. A., Govindan, K., Mardani, A., Zakuan, N., Saman, M. Z. M., Hooker, R.
                           E., & Özkul, S. (2019). "The Mediating Effect of Green Innovation on the Relationship
                           Between Green Supply Chain Management and Environmental Performance."Journal of Cleaner Production, 229, 115-127Monsreal-Barrera, M. M., Cruz-Mejia, O., Özkul, S., & Saucedo-Martínez, J. A. (2019).
                        "An Optimization Model for Investment in Technology and Government Regulation."Wireless Networks, 1-13.ServiceMember, Florida Freight Advisory CommitteeSecretary, TRB Freight Transportation Economics and Regulation CommitteeSecretary, TRB Urban Freight Transportation CommitteeMember, Muma College of Business, Undergraduate Policy CommitteeMember, USF Muma College of Business, School of Marketing and Innovation Undergraduate
                     Curriculum CommitteeMember, USF Muma College of Business, Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management
                     and Sustainability Scholarship CommitteeFellow, International Road Federation