Sharon L. SegrestProfessorssegrest@usf.eduCampus: St. PetersburgRoom: LPH 432Phone: 727-873-4747VitaSharon L. Segrest is a professor of management in the School of Information Systems
               and Management on the St. Petersburg campus, where she has taught since 2007. Her
               teaching spans a variety of management courses related to organizational behavior,
               international management, human resource management, and developing leadership skills.
               Segrest was honored withUSF's Women in Leadership and Philanthropy Dr. Kathleen Moore Research Award in 2023and is a recipient of a Muma College of Business Teaching Excellence Award. Segrest
               implemented the innovative "Search Inside Yourself" mindfulness and emotional intelligence
               training program into her Organizational Behavior MBA courses.Faculty Spotlight: Sharon Segrest, Management Professor, Helps Refugees from War-Torn
                     Countries AssimilateSegrest's research has been published in quality journals such as Organizational Behavior
               and Human Decision Processes and Personnel Review, and she has presented her research
               at national conferences and at conferences around the world in countries such as Australia,
               Brazil, Canada, France, Mexico, Peru and Spain. Research areas include careers, HRM
               (interviewing, recruiting), decision-making, and individual difference variables such
               as personality, gender, accent, and emotional intelligence.Segrest was elected to serve as a board member for the Southern Management Association
               and served as a volunteer board member for RBK since its founding in 2014. RBK is
               an organization that helps Syrian refugees and others in the MENA region with technology
               and soft skills training. During a recent sabbatical, Segrest taught global business
               ethics and international business for Semester at Sea while visiting 11 countries
               and 3 continents. She took students to businesses in various countries including Tata
               in India, a textile manufacturer focused on Adidas clothing in Aqaba, Jordan, a luxury
               shoe manufacturer in Alicante, Spain, and several organizations that help support
               rural women artisans and those with disabilities.