
Master's Programs
Click for larger chart

Master of Science in Accountancy and Analytics
Offered on Tampa and St Petersburg campusesThe Master of Science in Accountancy and Analytics program provides candidates with
               greater breadth and depth of knowledge in accountancy than is possible in the baccalaureate
               program. The program is designed to meet the increasing needs of business, government,
               and public accounting. The program may also be structured to satisfy the requirements
               to sit for the CPA examination in Florida.
MS in Business Analytics & Information Systems
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Business Analytics and Information Systems meets the needs
               of the marketplace for expertise in both information technology and management. Highly
               qualified individuals with motivation for leadership in information technology fields
               are encouraged to apply for admission to this program.
GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MS in Business Analytics & Information Systems
Offered entirely online synchronouslyClasses take place real-time in virtual classroomsThe Global Executive Master of Science in Business Analytics and Information Systems
               is designed for professionals around the world who want to move into management positions
               in the data analytics, information systems and information technologies arenas. This
               is an advanced STEM-certified business degree, which covers both the technology related
               to business analytics and the managerial aspects of implementing these technologies
               in organizations.
MS IN Finance
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Finance is a specialized degree that emphasizes finance and
               economics. This program offers an advanced education for people who want to pursue
               careers in corporate finance, investments, financial services, and related areas.
               Full-time students can complete the program in three semesters; part-time students
               can finish in six (or fewer) semesters.
MS IN HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Hospitality Management degree offers a variety of learning
               experiences through case studies, experiential learning, research projects and public,
               private and institutional partnerships to help students reach their career goals.  It
               is designed for those who want to play a vital role in addressing the changes and
               challenges in the hospitality industry. This degree programs helps student hone strategic
               and conceptual skills, technological abilities and become more effective communicators.
MS IN INFORMATION ASSURANCE AND CYBERSECURITY MANAGEMENT
Fully OnlineThe Master of Science in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Management prepares
               students for leadership, managerial and domain-specific roles in Cybersecurity. Students
               should be able to pursue employment in managerial and operational positions that require
               quick analytical thinking, decision-making under uncertainty regarding critical resources,
               and domain-specific technical skills for managing secure operations.
MS IN Management
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Management is a progressive, dynamic program where students
               learn about interpersonal and organizational dynamics, planned change, and implementation.
               Leadership, teamwork, communication skills and organizational change are emphasized.
MS IN Marketing
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Marketing is a specialized graduate degree where students
               can choose an area of emphasis such as marketing analytics, digital marketing and
               brand management. For the professional currently employed in marketing, it offers
               the opportunity to enhance overall knowledge, skills, and abilities. 
MS IN SPORT AND ENTERTAINMENT MANAGEMENT
Offered on Tampa campus Made possible by a partnership with the Tampa Bay Lightning and The Lightning Foundation,
               the USF MBA in Sport and Entertainment Management emphasizes business fundamentals
               of sports: management, marketing, finance, economics, and accounting.  It is USF's
               only full-time, lock-step, cohort based MBA program.  Students in this program also
               earn a Master of Science degree that is specific to the industry.
MS IN SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Supply Chain Management is designed for managers who need
               advanced training in the discipline while continuing to work full time. The 32-hour
               program is delivered in a hybrid format, meeting one week on campus each semester
               with the remaining coursework online.
MS in Entrepreneurship and Applied Technologies
Offered on Tampa campusThe Master of Science in Entrepreneurship and Applied Technologies integrates the
               principles for successful opportunity recognition, technology and market assessment,
               product commercialization, new venture formation, and new venture financing into a
               single interdisciplinary curriculum.  This program has been nationally ranked as one
               of the best graduate programs in this discipline.
