
Peace Corps Prep Program
USF is a globally focused public research institution dedicated to student success.
               Its mission is to deliver competitive undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs
               to generate knowledge, foster intellectual development, and ensure student success
               in a global environment.


                  				Overview
                  			
The Peace Corps Prep (PC Prep) program aligns with the strategic goals of USF and
                  our efforts to provide students with high-quality global experiences—on our campuses
                  and across the world. PC Prep will prepare you for international development fieldwork
                  and potential Peace Corps service. To accomplish this, you’ll build four core competencies
                  through interrelated coursework, hands-on experience, and professional development
                  support.


                        					Learn More
                        				 

                        					Download Student Guide
                        				 

                        					Main Peace Corps Site
                        				 

                        					Global Citizens Project
                        				 




                  				Enrollment Steps
                  			
Students may co-enroll in the Peace Corps Prep Program through the Global Citizens
                  Project enrollment process.


                        				Get Started
                        			 




                  				Apply
                  			
Students must co-enroll through the Global Citizens Project. Click the link below
                  to start your application.


                        				Apply Now
                        			 




                  				FAQs
                  			
Have questions about eligibility for the Peace Corps Prep Program? Read through the
                  frequently asked questions below.


                        					Common Questions
                        				 




                  				Student Portfolios
                  			
Check out the ePortfolios of students who have completed the Peace Corps Prep Program.


                        					Student Portfolios
                        				 




                  				Education Abroad
                  			
It is not mandatory to study abroad, nor a requirement to complete the PC Prep Program.
                  However, we would like to see you study abroad as it enhances your ability to know
                  the world as a global citizen. There are also other opportunities to volunteer campus-wide,
                  locally, or nationally that will enable you to have global hands-on experiences that
                  will enhance the completion of your PC Prep Program.


                        					Study Abroad Options
                        				 




                  				Resources
                  			
Be sure to check out our website resources page for more information or a list of
                  program contacts.


                        					Online Resources
                        				 

                        					Contact Info
                        				 


