
Open Enrollment
Open Enrollment BEGINS October 16! 
 

Thank you for visiting our Open Enrollment website. Here, you will find updates and
               information regarding this year's Open Enrollment changes, including activities and
               helpful  links for learning about your benefit options.
Open Enrollment Begins Monday October 16, 2023, at 8 A.M. – Friday, November 3, 2023,
                  at 6 P.M. EDT

5 Steps to a Successful Open Enrollment
1. Ensure that you receive all benefit-related information in a timely manner by updating
                  your contact information. For the 2024 year, this requires updating your email in
                  People First. 

Update Contact Information

The State of Florida will be distributing benefit plan information starting in 2024.
                      Please verify that your email and mailing address is correct to ensure that your
                     benefits plan information is delivered.
EMAIL ADDRESS UPDATE
Follow these steps to verify/update your email in People First:(Click here for instructions with pictures).

Go to https://peoplefirst.myflorida.com/peoplefirst/index.html
Sign in with your People First ID and password.
Click "Contact Information"Verify your email or update to your correct email address
To edit, click on the "Notification Email" row and click the edit button.
Update the email address and click "Save"
Confirmation will pop up

MAILING ADDRESS Please review your contact information in People First and GEMS to ensure that you
                     receive all benefit-related information in a timely manner. Any updates made in GEMS
                     Self Service are sent automatically to People First each night. For instructions on
                     how to update your address(es) with USF via MyUSF, click here for the instructional guide.
PEOPLE FIRST PASSWORD In addition to the address verification, you are encouraged to update your password
                     so you will not have to reset it during Open Enrollment. Please note that the following
                     will be required for password reset online: (1) A notification email set-up OR (2)
                     a phone number able to receive text messages.  If you do not have these reflected
                     at People First, you will need to contact the People First Service Center and may
                     experience long wait times due to high call volumes.  You can access the People First login screen here to reset your password.  Information on how to reset your password can be found on
                     the People First website’s Frequently Asked Questions.



2.  Don't miss out on what's new for the next plan year.

Learn about what’s new for 2024


3.  The Benefits Fair and Wellness Expo is back.

Attend the Benefits Fair & Wellness Expo

Please be sure to join us at one of the upcoming Benefits Fair & Wellness Expos to
                     learn more about important plan changes and the many benefits available to USF employees.
                     Additionally, some of our employee perks vendors will be on hand with information
                     and discounts on their products and services.
Tampa Campus: Monday, October 2, 2023, from 9:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. in the Marshall Student Center,
                     (MSC), Ballroom (2nd Floor)
St. Petersburg Campus: Tuesday, October 3, 2023, from 9:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. in the University Student Center
                     (USC), Ballroom (2nd Floor)
Sarasota-Manatee Campus: Wednesday, October 4, 2023, from 9:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. in the Selby Auditorium



4. Open Enrollment is your once-a-year opportunity to make any changes you want to your State Group Insurance benefits.

Make Enrollment Elections

Open Enrollment is your once-a-year opportunity to make any changes you want to your
                     State Group Insurance benefits. You can change your benefits as many times as you
                     want before the deadline. 
Accessing People First (Video 3 minutes)                                                                
                                     Learn about your options to make your elections and tips for accessing
                     the People First portal including finding your People First log in ID and resetting
                     your password.
Navigating the People First portal  (Video 7 minutes)                                                         Please use Firefox or Google Chrome and disable pop-ups to view this video:  A step-by-step guide to enrolling on the People First portal
Log in to People First to make your choices (changes, additions, and/or drop in coverages) and remember
                     to select the Complete Enrollment button when you are ready to save changes. If you make Open Enrollment changes, look
                     for a mailed confirmation statement in early November. Be sure all changes are correct,
                     any eligible dependents are enrolled in coverage, and any ineligible dependents have
                     been removed.



5. Premiums are deducted a month in advance so it is important to review your benefits deductions on December 2023 and January 2024 paychecks.

Review Premium Deductions

Please note that benefits premiums are deducted a month in advance so it is important
                     to review your deductions on December 2023 paychecks for changes and notify us at Benefits@usf.edu with any discrepancies.
Health Savings Account and Flexible Spending Account contributions are deducted during
                     the coverage month. Any changes to these accounts will begin with January 2024 paychecks.


If you have questions about your benefits, please contact the Central HR Benefits team or Regional HR Office. 

Open Enrollment Help Sessions


Date
Time
Location





Tuesday, October 17, 2023

2:00 PM - 4:00 PM
Virtual 



Wednesday, October 18, 2023

2:00 PM - 4:00 PM
SVC 2068



Tuesday, October 24, 2023

9:00 AM - 11:00 AM
Virtual



Thursday, October 26, 2023

7:00 AM - 10:00 AM
SVC 2068



Monday, October 30, 2023

12:00 PM - 2:00 PM
SVC 2068



Wednesday, November 1, 2023

12:00 PM - 2:00 PM
Virtual



 

