
Kaushik Dutta

Professor (Muma Fellow)Associate Dean of Undergraduate and International RelationsInterim Director, School of Information Systems and Managementduttak@usf.eduRoom: CIS 2079BPhone: (813) 974-6338VitaPersonal HomepageLinkedIn
Kaushik Dutta has 22 years of professional and research experience in the field of
                  enterprise IT infrastructure, data analytics and big data systems. He is professor in and chair of the School of Information Systems and Management. His current
               research interest is big data analytics. Dutta's primary expertise combines operations
               research and data mining techniques with computer science systems knowledge to efficiently
               handle big data and manage large IT infrastructure. He has been the mentor of two
               startups out of USF in the NSF-iCorps program.
Prior to joining USF, Dutta was a tenured associate professor at National University
               of Singapore and Florida International University. Before starting out on his academic
               path, he pursued a career in engineering, most recently as the chief technology officer
               and vice president of engineering of Mobilewalla, a NUS-incubated and Madrona-funded
               company that developed big-data-based mobile advertisement platforms.
Dutta earned a PhD in management information systems from the Georgia Institute of
               Technology and a master's degree in computer science from the Indian Statistical Institute.
               He received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Jadavpur University.
Teaching

ISM 6930 - Big Data and E-Commerce (MS MIS) 
ISM 6930 - Advanced Database (MS MIS)  

Research

Chatterjee, S., Byun, J., Dutta, K., Pedersen, R. U., Pottathil, A., & Xie, H., (2018),
                  "Designing an Internet-of-Things (IoT) and Sensor-Based In-Home Monitoring System
                  for Assisting Diabetes Patients: Iterative Learning from Two Case Studies," European Journal of Information Systems, Volume 27, Issue 6.
X.Xu, K.Dutta, C.Ge, (2018), "Do Adjective Features from User Reviews Address Sparsity
                  and Transparency in Recommender systems?" Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, Volume 29, Pages 113-123
S. Adikari, K. Dutta, (2018), "A New Approach to Real Time Bidding in Online Advertisements:
                  Auto Pricing Strategy," online published INFORMS Journal of Computing 
X. Xiaoying, K. Dutta, A. Datta, C. Ge, (2017), "Identifying Functional Aspects from
                  User Reviews for Functionality-Based Mobile App Recommendation," Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 69(2), 242-255.
A. Mukherjee, R. P. Sundraraj, K. Dutta, (2017), Apriori-Rule-Based-in-App Ad-Selection
                  Online Algorithm for Improving Supply Side Platform Revenues," ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS), Volume 8 Issue 2-3.

Google Scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=gqfV2KsAAAAJ&hl=en
Service

Special issue guest editor, ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, 2018
Special issue guest editor, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 2018
Review board member, Journal of Association of Information Systems, 2017-present
Area editor (database), Elsevier Journal of Systems and Software, 2007-16

