
Hurricane
VIEW THE USF HURRICANE GUIDE
USF Hurricane Guide
A hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone, which is a generic term for a low pressure
               system that generally forms in the tropics. The cyclone is accompanied by thunderstorms,
               severe wind and occasionally tornadoes.
It only takes one storm to threaten, cause damage and disrupt our lives. A hurricane
               will not occur without warning, so in the off-season it is important to be educated,
               develop a plan, and ensure that you are adequately prepared. Monitor the weather closely
               during hurricane season, which runs from June 1 - November 30.
By knowing your vulnerability and what actions you should take, you can reduce the
               effects of a hurricane disaster.
When a tropical storm or hurricane is forecasted to impact USF, follow directions
               and guidance administered by public safety officials. All official information regarding
               campus closings, class cancellation, evacuation, and re-population of the campus will
               be communicated through the main USF website and the USF Emergency Information Line by calling 1-800-992-4231.
PREPARATION
The USF Hurricane Guide provides information on campus operations and hurricane preparedness tips.
It is very important to maintain a Disaster Kit year round. This should include:

Important Documents (license, passport, insurance policies) and cash
Flashlight and extra batteries
Food and Water
Clothes/ blanket/closed toed shoes
Radio
Find more information on Disaster Kits at Ready.Gov

EVACUATION
While evacuation will not always be necessary, it is important that you are prepared
               if there is a need to leave your home. Locate the closest evacuation shelter and the
               safest route to get there. Ensure that at least one other person knows the address
               of the shelter or any other locations you plan to go in the event of an evacuation.
Each county maintains a list of evacuation shelters:

Hillsborough County Stay Safe
Manatee
Pasco
Pinellas
Sarasota

If the campus is evacuated, do not return until public safety officials have directed
               you to do so. Hurricanes can inflict severe damage to infrastructure, roadways, and
               buildings. Post-hurricane environmental conditions are likely to be unsafe.
Be prepared, be ready, and be safe!
Preparedness Resources:

USF Hurricane Guide
Hurricane Preparedness For Facility Areas
Hurricane Preparedness For Laboratories
Hurricane Preparedness for Departments
Resident Hurricane Checklist
Office Hurricane Checklist
Attorney General Hurricane Preparedness Guide

