
Research & Innovation


                  				USF Research & Innovation
                  			
USF Research & Innovation promotes and supports the research and scholarship activities
                  of faculty, staff and students, and strives to make USF a leading national research
                  university. Learn about discovery at USF.


                        					Research & Innovation 
                        				 

                        					Research Administration Education
                        				 

                        					Research at St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Research at Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 




                  				Sponsored Research
                  			
For USF researchers, the Division of Sponsored Research provides resources and information
                  for grant and contract proposal development and project management, proposal submission,
                  training, and assistance with identifying research collaborators.


                        					Sponsored Research
                        				 




                  				Technology Transfer
                  			
The Technology Transfer Office (TTO) works with companies interested in licensing
                  or starting a new business around USF patents and intellectual property, and with
                  USF researchers and students to ready new inventions for the patenting process and
                  potential licensing opportunities.


                        					TTO
                        				 




                  				Research Integrity & Compliance
                  			
Research Integrity & Compliance partners with researchers to promote safe and ethical
                  research practices at USF, and ensure the university is compliant with federal regulations,
                  state statutes, and university policies.


                        					Research Integrity & Compliance
                        				 




                  				USF Research Foundation & USF Research Park
                  			
USF Research Foundation promotes, encourages and enhances the research activities
                  of university faculty, staff, and students. Central to this mission is its USF Research
                  Park in the heart of Tampa’s Innovation Place and directly adjacent to the USF Tampa
                  campus. The USF Research Park provides proximity, specialized facilities, and a lively,
                  engaged entrepreneurial community for companies and organizations interested in partnering
                  with USF.


                        					USF Research Foundation
                        				 




                  				USF CONNECT
                  			
USF CONNECT supports local start-ups and entrepreneurs with meaningful programming
                  and a place to CONNECT. Its incubation programs provide state-of-the-art labs and
                  equipment, office space, shared services and a network of mentors and experts aimed
                  at growing local companies and fostering connections between USF and the business
                  community. USF CONNECT also administers funding programs, including the Corridor’s
                  Matching Grants Research Program.


                        				USF CONNECT
                        			 


