
Sarasota-Manatee Campus Tours

Get to know our hometown USF Sarasota-Manatee campus. Take a tour that will introduce
               you to our personalized programs and scenic setting along Sarasota Bay.


Student-Led Campus Tours

Our student-led tours give you an up-close view of our academic facilities and programs,
                     recreational amenities and other points of pride. In addition, you will hear from
                     current students about what life is really like on our dynamic Sarasota-Manatee campus! Your tour includes an information session presented by an Office of Admissions professional,
                     where you’ll get an overview of the university, admission requirements, scholarships
                     and campus life.  Before scheduling a visit, please keep the following in mind:

Dates: Tour space is limited to provide our guests with a positive experience. Please have
                        a few dates in mind before making your reservation in case your first choice is not
                        available.
Academic calendar: To get the best feel for the Sarasota-Manatee campus, check our academic calendar
                        and visit when there are students on campus attending classes. Campus visits are not
                        offered during university holidays.
International students: Please send us an email to add a meeting with an International Admissions Advisor to your tour.
Weather: The Sarasota-Manatee campus is located in a subtropical climate, and our tours are
                        held outdoors. Wear comfortable shoes, sunscreen, hats, sunglasses and temperature-appropriate
                        clothing. And don't forget to bring a water bottle to stay hydrated! It can get hot
                        in Sarasota, especially on a walking tour of campus.

Register Now



Saturday Tours

We are offering Saturday tours this summer and fall to give you more opportunities
                     to explore the Sarasota-Manatee campus. Our student-led tours give you an up-close
                     view of our academic facilities and programs, recreational amenities and other points
                     of pride. In addition, you will hear from current students about what life is really
                     like on our dynamic Sarasota-Manatee campus!

November 4 | 10 - 11 a.m.
November 18 | 10 - 11 a.m.
December 16 | 10 - 11 a.m.

Your tour includes an information session presented by an Office of Admissions professional,
                     where you’ll get an overview of the university, admission requirements, scholarships
                     and campus life.
Before registering for a Saturday tour, please keep the following in mind:

International students: Please send us an email to add a meeting with an International Admissions Advisor to your tour.
Weather: The Sarasota-Manatee campus is located in a subtropical climate, and our tours are
                        held outdoors. Wear comfortable shoes, sunscreen, hats, sunglasses and temperature-appropriate
                        clothing. And don't forget to bring a water bottle to stay hydrated! It can get hot
                        in Sarasota, especially on a walking tour of campus.




Group Tours (10+ Students)

Customize a tour of the Sarasota-Manatee campus for your group today. Whether you
                     want to take a quick tour of campus, take advantage of our campus dining, participate
                     in interactive college-preparation games or just get to know our campus community,
                     we are here to provide a great visit. These visits are comprised of groups of 10-100 students. To ensure all group visits are coordinated effectively, we ask that requests be submitted
                     at least three weeks prior to the week you intend to visit.
Submit Request
If you have questions about scheduling a group tour, please send us an email at visit-sm@usf.edu. 



Virtual Tours

Explore USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus online – from anywhere! Led by student guides,
                     our virtual tour offers you 360-degree panoramic views of our beautiful campus located
                     on Sarasota Bay. Picture yourself in our state-of-the-art student center. Discover the exciting, hands-on
                     learning at Mote Marine Laboratory and Bloomberg Lab. Imagine yourself stretched out
                     under the Florida sun in a hammock – in February! It’s all possible with one click.
Start Tour



Disability Accommodations

Please contact the tour staff at 941-359-4200 or send us an email at least five working days in advance for mobility assistance, visual impairment
                     assistance, or American Sign Language interpreting.  USF is an Equal Opportunity/Equal Access Institution and therefore complies fully
                     with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and all
                     other federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination on the basis
                     of disability or handicap.



Directions to Campus

 AddressUSF Sarasota-Manatee Campus8350 North Tamiami TrailSarasota, FL 34243Campus Map From I-75

Take 1-75 to University Parkway, Exit 213W.
Go west on University Parkway for approximately 6.5 miles to US-41 (Tamiami Trail).
Turn right onto US-41 (Tamiami Trail) and head north for approximately 0.5 mile.
The Sarasota-Manatee campus will be on your left.

From US-41

The Sarasota-Manatee campus of USF is located one mile north of University Parkway
                        in North Sarasota, across the street from the Sarasota-Bradenton International Airport




Parking on Campus

You may use reserved visitor spaces, or if your length of stay will exceed the time
                     limitations of the visitor space, you may secure a temporary visitor permit from the
                     Parking Services Department or the receptionist. Temporary Visitor Permits may be obtained at no charge from USF Department Office
                     Managers, at the USF Parking Services Office or at the Reception Desk. Temporary Visitor
                     Permits may not be used in visitor spaces.
Disabled guests may park in any disabled space on campus with an appropriate state
                     disabled placard/license plate and a valid temporary visitor permit. Both the disabled
                     placard/license plate and USF temporary visitor permit must be visibly displayed.



Hotels and Accommodations

If you're visiting from out of town, there are a number of convenient hotels located
                     near our Sarasota-Manatee campus. This is not a comprehensive list, so visitors are
                     encouraged to search for other hotels near the campus they are visiting. Many of the hotels listed offer a special USF rate. If you choose one of these hotels,
                     state that you are visiting the University of South Florida to access the special
                     rate. Some also offer free shuttle service to the campus.
Home2 Suites by Hilton Sarasota Bradenton Airport8260 North Tamiami TrailSarasota, FL 34243941-500-1899 Hilton Garden Inn Sarasota-Bradenton Airport8270 N Tamiami TrailSarasota, Florida, 34243941-552-1100 Holiday Inn Sarasota - Airport8009 15th St ESarasota, FL 34243877-859-5095



Explore Sarasota (and Beyond)

One of the best parts of attending USF’S Sarasota-Manatee campus is our location. Our
                     friendly campus on scenic Sarasota Bay is just south of the Tampa Bay region and is
                     renowned for its world-class beaches, abundant nightlife and vibrant arts scene. USF
                     offers something for everyone, from beach lovers to art aficionados.  Download our Gulf Coast Visitor Guide to make the most of your trip and explore everything
                     our Gulf Coast region has to offer, from sports to nature. 
Download Guide


