
Cihan Cobanoglu

McKibbon Endowed Chair, Dean of the School of Hospitality and Tourism ManagementDirector of M3 CenterDirector of International Programscihan@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateeRoom: A314Phone: 941-359-4244Personal Website
Cihan Cobanoglu is the dean of the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management. 
               He holds the McKibbon Endowed Chair Professor of the School of Hospitality and Tourism
               Management at USF's Muma College of Business in Sarasota-Manatee. He also serves as
               the director of the M3 Center for Hospitality Technology and Innovation and is the
               coordinator of international programs for the college.  Additionally, Cobanoglu is
               the director of international partnerships for the college, responsible for coordinating
               global affairs.
Cobanoglu is a renowned hospitality and tourism technology expert and a Fulbright
               specialist.  He is a Certified Hospitality Technology Professional and is editor of
               the Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Technology , the Journal of Global Business Insights; is associate editor of Tourism Review and a co-author of six books and 10 conference proceedings. He serves as president
               of the Association of North America Higher Education International. He is a board
               member of Hospitality Technology magazine and an editorial board member of Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, the International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, among many others.
His research involves the use and impact of technology in the hospitality industry.
               His work has been featured in national and international media outlets such as BBC,
               NBC, ABC, and Futurist magazine, The New York Times, the Boston Globe and Lodging magazine. His work has been published in scholarly journals such as Tourism Management, The Service Industries Journal, Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration
                  Quarterly, and many others. His articles have been cited more than 4,000 times, and he has made
               numerous presentations at national and international conferences. He received the
               “Excellence in Research -- Tenured” award from USF in 2016. He received 14 best paper
               awards from international conferences.
Cobanoglu earned a PhD and master's degree from Oklahoma State University and an undergraduate
               degree from Cukurova University in Turkey.
Teaching

HFT 3423: Hospitality Information Technology
HFT 3894: International Food and Culture
HMG 6507: Hospitality Information Systems and Technology

Research

Hospitality & Tourism Information Technology
E-Tourism
E-Marketing

Service

Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Technology
Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Global Business Insights
President, Assoc. of North America Higher Education International

