
Articles
By Year


2022202120202019201820172016


201520142013 2012201120102009


2022
USF gets donation to invest in 'Fintech' - Fox 13 Tampa BayApril 19, 2022 The University of South Florida received a $14 million donation.
Kate Tiedemann, Ellen Cotton give $14M to USF for fintech program - Florida PoliticsApril 19, 2022 St. Petersburg philanthropists Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton are donating $14 million
               to the University of South Florida (USF) to support the USF Muma College of Business.
St. Petersburg Philanthropists Give $14 Million to Enhance USF Finance ProgramApril 18, 2022 Philanthropists Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton, long-time supporters of the University
               of South Florida’s programs on its St. Petersburg campus, recently made gifts totaling
               $14 million to support efforts to make the USF Kate Tiedemann School of Business and
               Finance a “hub of excellence” in fintech education.
USF receives $14M to create fintech ‘hub of excellence’ - Business ObserverApril 18, 2022 The donations came from St. Petersburg philanthropists Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton.
USF gets ‘transformational’ $14M gift for fintech education - Tampa Bay TimesApril 18, 2022 The gift from philanthropists Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton will go toward new
               faculty, curriculums and more for a financial technology program.
Longtime donors Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton give $14M to USF St. Pete to boost
                     fintech education - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 18, 2022 “We are becoming the innovation hub of the southeast and hopefully the nation."
St. Pete School of Business receives $14 million donation for fintech center - USF OracleApril 18, 2022 Long-time donors Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton collectively contributed $14 million
               for the Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance’s efforts to become a hub in
               fintech education.
Taxes are due April 18: Tax expert shares how to avoid penalties - ABC Action NewsApril 18, 2022 “Everybody ought to be aware that the due date is Monday, April 18,” said Luke Richardson,
               Associate Professor of Instruction for Accounting at the University of South Florida.
University of South Florida Gets $14M Donation for Fintech - Government TechnologyApril 18, 2022 The university received a gift from philanthropists Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton
               that will go toward developing its financial technology program, eventually to include
               a fintech center and degree programs.
Florida and Fintech: University of South Florida Receives $14 Million Donation from
                     Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton to Build Fintech Hub - Crowdfund InsiderApril 18, 2022 The University of South Florida announced a $14 million donation today from Kate
               Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton. The gift is to be used to create a Fintech “hub of excellence”
               at USF Muma College of Business.
USFSP receives $14 million gift for fintech ‘hub of excellence’ - CatalystApril 18, 2022 The Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance at the University of South Florida
               St. Petersburg was abuzz Monday as university officials announced a “transformative”
               $14 million gift from the school’s namesake.
Muma College of Business introduces FinTech|X Accelerator Program - USF OracleApril 17, 2022 The Muma College of Business’ new FinTech|X Accelerator program is expected to promote
               innovation within the field of financial technology, or fintech, by providing resources,
               mentorship and investment advising to a cohort of 16 national and international startup
               companies.
Alumni Spotlight: Internship at Not Your Mother’s Haircare Pays Off for Victoria CelisApril 14, 2022 In 2021, Victoria Celis got her dream job during her last semester at the University
               of South Florida.
Adidas CEO on work-life balance conundrum: Wear it proudly - Business ObserverApril 14, 2022 On his first U.S. trip since the pandemic, Adidas CEO Kasper Rorsted offered words
               of wisdom to students at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business.
Backlog of trucks at U.S.-Mexico border could impact meat, produce supply chains - WFTV9April 14, 2022 Some of your favorite groceries could be a little harder to find next week due to
               a backlog of trucks along the U.S.-Mexico border.
USF Researchers and Business Leaders Unpack Key Tampa Bay Metrics at “State of the
                  Region” EventApril 13, 2022 Researchers from the University of South Florida Muma College of Business and Tampa
               Bay Partnership unveiled on Wednesday findings from two data-driven reports examining
               how the eight-county region stacks up against its demographic peers.
Boundless Bulls: Shivendu Shivendu - USF NewsApril 13, 2022 Ask Shivendu Shivendu what he’s most passionate about and you will get a master class
               lesson about blockchain, cryptocurrencies, Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) and token economics.
Top reviews influence consumers' buying more than products with high ratings, study
                     finds - ConsumerAffairsApril 13, 2022 Experts say online shoppers are swayed the most by reviews when choosing what to
               purchase
Study finds top reviews, not average ratings, sway consumer decision-making - ScienceDailyApril 12, 2022 The research debunks a widely held notion that serious online consumers buy products
               with a higher rating
Study finds top reviews, not average ratings, sway consumer decision-making - Phys.orgApril 12, 2022 When it comes to online shopping habits, the collective wisdom dictates that consumers
               gravitate toward the highest-rated products.
Home prices in Tampa Bay continue to climb, competition rises with investors making
                     cash offers - ABC Action NewsApril 12, 2022 This is a historic housing market in the Tampa Bay area. Usually, rising interest
               rates on home loans would slow down investors from buying, but that’s not what housing
               experts are seeing here.
University of South Florida, Tampa Bay Wave’s Fintech Accelerator Cohort has Been
                     Announced - Crowdfund InsiderApril 12, 2022 St. Petersburg’s fast-evolving Fintech sector continues to expand as Tampa Bay Wave
               and the University of South Florida have confirmed the inaugural cohort of startups
               for its Fintech|X Accelerator program.
Innovative Tampa investment firm joins local fintech cohort - 83 DegreesApril 12, 2022 Inflated prices, market volatility, and dire predictions of a looming correction
               are making investing in the stock market more challenging these days. But a Tampa
               startup is taking out some of the guesswork.
Meet the tech companies tapped for USF, Tampa Bay Wave's first fintech accelerator - TampaBayInnoApril 11, 2022 Companies focused on cryptocurrency, student loan debt, crowdfunding and sneaker
               sales have been tapped for the first cohort of the region's inaugural fintech accelerator.
USF, Tampa Bay Wave’s inaugural fintech accelerator cohort announced - CatalystApril 11, 2022 St. Petersburg’s burgeoning financial technology scene continues to grow as Tampa
               Bay Wave and the University of South Florida have announced the inaugural cohort of
               startups for its much-anticipated Fintech|X Accelerator program.
Tampa Bay Wave and USF announce 16 fintech startups for the inaugural FinTech|X Accelerator
                     2022 cohort - USF St. Petersburg campusApril 11, 2022 Tampa Bay Wave and the USF Muma College of Business have partnered on a FinTech|X
               Accelerator to showcase USF’s strategic entry into FinTech and promoting St. Petersburg
               as a major hub for financial technology talent and innovation.
Bodily Injury Liability Insurance - WalletHubApril 11, 2022 All drivers should meet with their insurance agent or an attorney to help them make
               this decision. However, owners/drivers should generally have sufficient liability
               insurance coverage to protect their personal assets.
Faculty Spotlight: Shivendu ShivenduApril 7, 2022 Ask Shivendu Shivendu what he’s most passionate about and you will get a master class
               lesson about blockchain, cryptocurrencies, Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) and token economics.
When the “Stars” Don’t Align: Study Finds Top Reviews, Not Average Ratings, Sway Consumer
                  Decision-MakingApril 7, 2022 When it comes to online shopping habits, the collective wisdom dictates that consumers
               gravitate toward the highest-rated products.
How did tech startup Fast’s big Tampa plans unravel so quickly? - Tampa Bay TimesApril 7, 2022 The company was held up as a local economic success story. Now some are comparing
               it to WeWork and Theranos.
Aluminum shortage affecting pet food, beer supply - ABC Action NewsApril 5, 2022 Aluminum is in short supply, leading to shortages in both the pet food aisle and
               at your local brewery. Experts say production isn't meeting up with demand.
A walk in his shoes: Adidas CEO describes his journey for USF students - CatalystApril 4, 2022 Kasper Rørsted, who heads one of the world’s largest athletic wear companies, gave
               the University of South Florida students a look into how he built his career and the
               obstacles he faced, including his mistakes.
Aluminum shortage impacting cat food, canned beer, and more - ClickOrlando.comApril 4, 2022 Experts predict issue may linger well into 2023
What a great time for USF and its future | Column - Tampa Bay TimesApril 1, 2022 With a new president, historic new funding, plans for a new on-campus stadium and
               a steady drumbeat of alumni and philanthropic support, we are experiencing a remarkable
               transformation for USF and for Tampa Bay.
Adidas CEO Kasper Rørsted Talks ‘Owning the Game’ and Sustainability at USF Muma College
                  of Business Thought Leader SeriesMarch 31, 2022 During a wide-ranging informal discussion before a sold-out crowd, the head of one
               of the world’s most iconic brands spoke about having a mindset of innovation, being
               committed to sustainability, and leading a company where people always come first.
USF and ConnectWise founder team up to help Tampa Bay’s talent pipeline | Editorial - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 31, 2022 An old business axiom goes something like Don’t forget to celebrate your successes.
Adidas CEO Kasper Rørsted talks balancing priorities, business - The OracleMarch 31, 2022 Excited to speak to the university that represents the three stripes in competition,
               Adidas CEO Kasper Rørsted shared the importance of keeping priorities straight while
               running a business and managing one’s personal life.
Kasper Rørsted to provide business advice at Thought Leader Series - The OracleMarch 30, 2022 As part of the Muma College of Business’ Thought Leader Series, Adidas CEO Kasper
               Rørsted will speak Thursday about his experiences of becoming CEO of one the world’s
               largest companies and leading the multibillion-dollar corporation’s innovative catalog
               of shoes and athletic wear.
Experts say Florida's supply chain stands strong for 2022 - Bay News 9March 25, 2022 Since the beginning of the pandemic, issues with the supply chain have impacted just
               about every industry across the world.
USF Receives $10.6 Million Gift to Open the Bellini Center for Talent DevelopmentMarch 24, 2022 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business today celebrated the grand
               opening of the Bellini Center for Talent Development, an innovative career-development
               program housed in a state-of-the-art “business hub” adjacent to WUSF public media.
USF receives a $10.6 million gift to establish Bellini Center for Talent Development - Bay News 9March 24, 2022 The University of South Florida announced a 10.6 million dollar gift from USF alumni,
               Arnie and Lauren Bellini. This gift will fund the Bellini Center for Talent Development.
USF receives a $10.6 million gift to establish center focused on enhancing the talent
                     pipeline for Tampa Bay employers - Tampa Bay NewswireMarch 24, 2022 The University of South Florida today announced a $10.6 million gift and celebrated
               the grand opening of a new center, which will benefit all students in the Muma College
               of Business and ultimately businesses in the Tampa Bay area.
USF celebrates opening of Bellini Center thanks to $10.6M donation - CatalystMarch 24, 2022 The University of South Florida celebrated the opening of the Bellini Center for
               Talent Development on Thursday (today) at the Tampa campus.
USF center eyes a goal: someday, a guaranteed job for every business grad - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 24, 2022 The new “talent development” facility is made possible by a $10.6 million gift from
               the Bellini family.
Bellini Center for Talent Development receives $10.6 million donation - USF OracleMarch 24, 2022 The Muma College of Business hosted a ribbon-cutting ceremony Thursday morning, unveiling
               a $10.6 million donation to the USF Foundation for the Bellini Center for Talent Development.
               Photo Gallery
USF receives $10.6 million gift to build talent center - WTSPMarch 24, 2022 The center will look to provide the Tampa Bay area with a talent pipeline of employees
               through a three-year-plus certification program.
USF unveils Bellini Center backed by $10.6M donation to 'transform' talent pipeline - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 24, 2022 The center, hosted through the Muma College of Business, will focus on building the
               talent pipeline through internships and partnerships with local businesses.
Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference Awards Innovator Award to Orlando MagicMarch 23, 2022 When it comes to using business analytics to lure fans into seats, the Orlando Magic
               team is an early adopter and has seen tremendous success in using ticket holder data
               to generate revenue.
Student cook up meals at Hospitabull - YourObserverMarch 23, 2022 The University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee Hospitality Management program students
               put their knowledge to the test and cooked up dishes at the annual HospitaBull dinner
               at the Ritz-Carlton, Sarasota.
State Supply Chain Leaders Promote Growth Opportunities at SummitMarch 22, 2022 Public and private stakeholders in the supply chain management industry gathered
               Tuesday to discuss ways to strengthen the state’s supply chain and maximize its growth
               at the 2022 Florida Supply Chain Summit.
Top 5 Colleges For A Master’s Degree In Florida - CEOworld MagazineMarch 21, 2022 Florida is not just popular for tourism but is also approachable by students from
               all over the world for higher education.
Sarasota Accountant Takes Up SEAL’s Call to Action with Cross-Country Charity RunMarch 18, 2022 Nels Matson always admired those called to serve in the military. He also thrived
               at pushing himself to his physical limits and believed joining the U.S. Marines would
               be the ultimate test of his mettle.
USF researchers pivot projects after scammers spoil study - Fox 13 Tampa BayMarch 17, 2022 Scammers find a way to dupe people in new ways all the time, and now they’re targeting
               online research surveys that pay you to participate.
Florida bill requires high school students take financial literacy class - Fox 13 Tampa BayMarch 10, 2022 A bill is headed to the governor’s desk that would make a personal finance class
               mandatory to graduate high school.
Adidas CEO to speak at USF business event - CatalystMarch 10, 2022 Adidas CEO Kasper Rørsted will speak at the University of South Florida's Muma College
               of Business Thought Leaders Series on Mach 31.
Kasper Rørsted, CEO of Adidas, is the Muma College of Business Thought Leader Series
                     Speaker on March 31March 9, 2022 Adidas CEO Kasper Rørsted’s definition of success is simple — to be the best sports
               brand in the world and to do it sustainably.
Former Fullbright Student at Sarasota-Manatee Campus Returns to USF as an InstructorMarch 9, 2022 Nefike Gunden arrived at the University of South Florida as a 22-year-old Fulbright
               scholar determined to make the most of her opportunity, improve her English and explore
               her career options – possibly as a college professor.
Florida Supply Chain Summit on March 21-23 to Focus on Kinks Linked to Shortages on
                     Shelves - PerishableNews.comMarch 9, 2022 If you are interested in doing business in Florida or are performing vital supply
               chain, logistics or trade services, this action-packed 3-day summit is for you.
The evolution of the Florida MBA experience: changing workforce and student needs - Florida TrendMarch 9, 2022 The MBA was originally designed for those without an undergraduate business degree
               — engineers, for example, who wanted to move into management. But today, about half
               of Charles Michaels’ MBA students have an undergraduate business degree.
Florida higher education news about university MBA programs - Florida TrendMarch 9, 2022 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business and McKibbon Hospitality
               announced a partnership that creates an innovative hospitality teaching lab program.
Moheet Nagrath Guest Lectures at USF Muma College of Business Speaker SeriesMarch 7, 2022 For more than 30 years, Moheet Nagrath worked in human resources at global consumer
               goods giant Proctor & Gamble, traveling to more than 50 countries and living in five
               different countries.
Florida Supply Chain Summit on March 21-23 to Focus on Kinks Linked to Shortages on
                     Shelves - Silicon.co.ukMarch 4, 2022 If you are interested in doing business in Florida or are performing vital supply
               chain, logistics or trade services, this action-packed 3-day summit is for you.
Experts: Sanctions on Russia means gas prices in Florida will continue to rise - ABC Action NewsMarch 1, 2022 Drivers in Florida are paying an average price of $3.52 per gallon, according to
               AAA. It’s the most expensive daily average since July 2014.
To Mitigate ‘The Great Resignation’ Refocus on the Employee Experience - Modern Restaurant ManagementMarch 1, 2022 The landscape of the restaurant industry has changed forever due to Covid and the
               operational complexities that the pandemic introduced.
Vital contributions of women create opportunities at USF and beyond - USF NewsMarch 1, 2022 March marks the University of South Florida’s celebration of Women’s History Month
               and an opportunity to highlight the contributions of women throughout history and
               contemporary society.
Student Spotlight: Janae Barnes Sets Sights on Hospitality DegreeFebruary 28, 2022 Janae Barnes has tried college before. Three times, in fact.
What to Know About Synapse Summit 2022 and Florida’s Energized Innovation Economy - Nasdaq.comFebruary 28, 2022 The 5th annual 2022 Synapse Summit returned to Tampa’s Amalie Arena this February
               calling together Florida’s entrepreneurial ecosystem, which consists of startup founders,
               funders, tech talent, executives, educational institutions, support organizations
               and local/regional/state government entities, especially the economic development
               boards.
Sarasota CPA firm's gift pays off with fellowship announcement - Business ObserverFebruary 28, 2022 The gift was previously announced in November to help with the development of a fellowship
               program and scholarships.
The top 125 institutions that produced the most Fulbright scholars in 2021-22 - University BusinessFebruary 28, 2022 The possibilities are endless for students and scholars who are chosen to participate
               in the Fulbright Program each year. Their commitment to education, to their country
               and to being leaders also shows how well their colleges and universities are preparing
               elite talent for the future.
From Space to Sustainable Spinoffs: USF Muma College of Business Students Win Patenthon
                     Competition With NASA TechnologyFebruary 25, 2022 A team of University of South Florida students won first place at the inaugural Patenthon
               competition, an event where college students took NASA-patented technologies and turned
               them into new business ideas that addressed global sustainable development goals.
Restaurants turn to automation to fill positions — and increase productivity - Business ObserverFebruary 25, 2022 As the hospitality industry grapples with a shortage of workers, robots are becoming
               more enticing.
Esports Class Gamified Like a Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Video GameFebruary 24, 2022 “The class is more like a choose-your-own-adventure,” said Visiting Assistant Professor
               of Instruction Greg Greenhalgh, who designed the course that teaches the business
               side of the $2 billion gaming industry.
Synapse Summit 2022: The Role of High Tech Corridor Universities in Florida Innovation - USF NewsFebruary 24, 2022 USF President Rhea Law joins a panel of leaders from the 23-county Florida High Tech
               Corridor at Synapse Summit 2022 where they discuss their hallmark partnership approach,
               the role of universities in Florida’s innovation economy and how their universities
               are preparing the next generation of innovators.
Concern grows about gas, food prices in Florida as Russia invades Ukraine - WFLAFebruary 24, 2022 As war enters Europe and the Biden administration announces new sanctions on Russian
               financial institutions and oligarchs close to President Vladimir Putin, Florida braces
               for the impact it could have on gas and food prices.
Three-day Florida Supply Chain Summit Set for March 21February 14, 2022 Stroll down any grocery store aisle and the continued impacts from the pandemic-induced
               supply chain disruptions are clear.
Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference Set for March 23-24February 11, 2022 The 2022 USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference is returning for its eighth
               consecutive year in March, bringing together industry experts who combine cutting-edge
               data collection and analysis with the sports and entertainment industry.
Gulfport realtor makes history with first US cryptocurrency home sale - Fox 13February 11, 2022 The Gulfport house listed for sale as an NFT is off the market, helping Tampa Bay
               made history in real estate.
Tampa Bay’s 9.6 percent inflation still tops other cities. These 5 charts show how. - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 10, 2022 Since November, local prices have shot up faster than in any other market in the
               country.
IRS has gave a warning of tax refund delays as department is overburdened - TheAltWebFebruary 10, 2022 Now that tax season has begun, Treasury Department officials warn that they are facing
               issues due to a backlog of millions of unfiled returns from the previous year.
USF Muma College of Business Opens New Fintech Center, Appoints DirectorFebruary 10, 2022 The University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business is opening a new center
               specializing in the rapidly evolving financial technology industry — one that will
               serve as a “hub of excellence” for all things fintech-related.
How Tampa General Hospital is Successfully Investing in its Workforce - healthleadersFebruary 10, 2022 John Couris, CEO of Tampa General Hospital, details how the organization's People
               Development Institute aims to better the organization by investing in its team members.
Tenants call for housing committee to move forward with rent control in St. Pete - WTSPFebruary 9, 2022 The St. Pete Tenants Union is hoping the Housing, Land Use and Transportation committee
               will take the first steps to bring rent control to the area.
Is Tampa Bay’s housing market reaching its peak? - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 9, 2022 The average home sold for 41 percent above the expected price at the end of 2021,
               a Florida Atlantic University and Florida International University study found.
How to easily transpose data in Excel - Journal of AccountancyFebruary 8, 2022 Occasionally you may have a worksheet with data in columns that you want to rearrange
               into rows. Instead of reentering the data, you can easily rotate the data using the
               Transpose feature.
Kerkering Barberio Fellows at USF Muma College of Business Announced - SRQ20February 7, 2022 The University of South Florida Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy in the Muma
               College of Business has named three accounting faculty members in the school as Kerkering
               Barberio Fellows, a prestigious honor that recognizes continued excellence in undergraduate
               teaching.
Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy in the USF Muma College of Business Names Three
                  Faculty Members as Kerkering Barberio FellowsFebruary 4, 2022 The University of South Florida Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy in the Muma
               College of Business has named three accounting faculty members in the school as Kerkering
               Barberio Fellows, a prestigious honor that recognizes continued excellence in undergraduate
               teaching.
This program is helping high schools prepare young talent | Column - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 4, 2022 3DE is a Junior Achievement education model, a school within a school, that is expanding
               in Tampa Bay.
‘Bold Adventure’: Pinellas realtor lists Gulfport home for NFT - Fox 13February 4, 2022 A Pinellas County realtor is selling a house as an NFT at auction next week, a first
               in the country.
Popular Content Creator and Gamer Headlines Third Annual USF Esports SummitFebruary 3, 2022 Gaming content creator Jeremiah Woodward, better known as Jpw03 among his more than
               100,000 YouTube fans and 30,000 Twitch followers, considers himself a “dorky guy”
               who is “kind of bad” at video games.
Tom Brady to leave a lasting legacy behind in the Tampa Bay area - ABC Action NewsFebruary 1, 2022 During his football tenure, Tom Brady has made his name a household one, and even
               those who aren't the biggest football fans more than likely know his name.
Third Annual Esports Summit Features Speakers, Workshops and Collegiate TournamentJanuary 31, 2022 Competitive video gaming fanatics can see their favorite collegiate teams face off
               in a live esports tournament at the Third Annual USF Esports Summit set for Feb. 3
               at the USF Marshall Student Center.
Bad managers, burnout and health fears: Why record numbers of hospitality workers
                     are quitting the industry for good - The ConversationJanuary 31, 2022 About 3.5 million people have at least temporarily left the U.S. workforce since
               March 2020. Over one-third of them – 1.2 million – are in the leisure and hospitality
               industry.
USF online graduate programs rank among nation’s best - Crow's NestJanuary 31, 2022 USF’s online Information Technology graduate program ranks No. 14 in the country.
DBA Program Director and Family Establish DEI Scholarship to Honor FatherJanuary 28, 2022 Throughout his life, USF faculty member Matt Mullarkey had a front-row seat to his
               father’s grit and perseverance.
Revealed: 2022 Power 100, Tampa Bay’s most influential leaders - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 26, 2022 These are the most influential businesspeople in Tampa Bay right now.
USF’s online graduate programs rank among the nation’s best - Tampa Bay 100January 26, 2022 The University of South Florida had five of its online graduate programs rank in
               the top 100 of a new list released by U.S. News and World Report.
USF's online MBA program rises in national rankings as virtual classes hit new popularity - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 25, 2022 Amid growing costs and cut budgets, offering flexible degree programs could set universities
               apart from the pack.
USF’s online graduate programs rank among the nation’s best - USF NewsJanuary 25, 2022 The University of South Florida delivers some of the best online graduate programs
               in the country, according to new rankings released today by U.S. News and World Report
               (U.S. News).
U.S. News & World Report Ranks Muma College of Business online MBA program No. 31
                  in the nationJanuary 25, 2022 The University of South Florida’s online MBA program took the No. 31 spot in the
               nation – No. 25 among public universities – on the U.S. News and World Report’s annual
               survey of the 2022 Best Online Programs released this week.
NASA opens patent portfolio to bay area students - CatalystJanuary 18, 2022 Through a partnership with NASA, college students now have the opportunity to utilize
               patents originally intended for use in space right here in Tampa Bay.
The new fintech accelerator aims to rapidly grow Tampa Bay Area technology companies - Tittle PressJanuary 18, 2022 The nonprofit Tampa Bay Wave is accepting applications for its new FinTech | X Accelerator,
               its fourth program designed to help entrepreneurs grow technology-based businesses
               in Tampa Bay.
New fintech accelerator aims to quickly grow Tampa Bay Area tech companies - 83 DegreesJanuary 18, 2022 The non-profit Tampa Bay Wave is accepting applications for its new FinTech|X Accelerator,
               its fourth program intended to help entrepreneurs grow technology-based companies
               in Tampa Bay.
Some store shelves empty as pandemic pressure wreaks havoc - Boston 25 NewsJanuary 18, 2022 Finding your favorite foods may be harder this past month.
Applications Open for Free Cybersecurity Training Lab at USFJanuary 12, 2022 If you have a knack for sleuthing and a passion for stopping hackers and other scamming
               bad actors, a career in cybersecurity might be for you.
Student Spotlight: Jack Luba Lands Summer Investment Banking Internship with Raymond
                  James in ChicagoJanuary 12, 2022 As a finance major in the USF Muma College of Business, Luba started focusing on
               that on day one.
Student Spotlight: Giselle Vazquez-Soto Combines Passion for Health Care and FinanceJanuary 10, 2022 While she is enjoying her last few months at the University of South Florida, her
               long list of leadership roles and volunteer work has been so varied that even a Venn
               diagram couldn’t explain the connections.
There’s a cat food shortage, and Tampa Bay felines are not happy about it - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 5, 2022 Remember when grocery store shelves practically sagged with rows of every kind of
               cat food imaginable?
Business Honors Program Makes Its Debut on the St. Petersburg CampusJanuary 3, 2022 The first cohort of the University of South Florida’s Business Honors Program on
               the St. Petersburg campus made its debut in Fall 2021.
Back to top
2021
Two Indian American students win the Amgen Strategy Competition - The American BazaarDecember 28, 2021 The pair’s winning proposal centered on making people’s stories of bias and belonging
               relatable
Pandemic prompts surge of online employee monitoring. One executive calls it 'soul
                     crushing' - Miami HeraldDecember 19, 2021 Employee monitoring software stalks websites workers visit, tracks clicks on a keyboard
               and captures periodic screenshots throughout the workday.
Two Indian American Students at USF Take Top Prize in Amgen Strategy Competition - IndiaWestDecember 18, 2021 Their winning pitch beat out competing proposals from dozens of other universities
               across the country, the report said Dec. 10.
City of St. Pete approves USF and community researchers’ recommendations on how to
                     address systemic racism - The Weekly ChallengerDecember 17, 2021 City Council members are moving forward with a plan created by an interdisciplinary
               team of researchers coordinated by the University of South Florida on identifying
               and addressing structural racism in the community.
Online MBA Program Ranked Among the Top 20 in the NationDecember 17, 2021 The online MBA program at USF’s Muma College of Business is continuing its upward
               trajectory, landing in the No. 20 spot among the nation’s top programs, according
               to rankings released this week by The Princeton Review.
Best Online Master’s In Information Technology 2021: Top Picks - Fior ReportsDecember 16, 2021 Businesses, organizations, and government agencies rely on information technology
               professionals to keep their computer networks and systems functioning and protected.
New study finds USFSP’s economic impact is nearly $443 million annually - CatalystDecember 15, 2021 A study released last week stated that across three campuses, the University of South
               Florida generates $6.02 billion annually in economic impact.
Supply chain issues continue, impacting holiday shopping, prices, and product availability - ABC Action NewsDecember 14, 2021 “Across the board, we’re seeing higher costs for products and services that we buy,”
               said Robert Hooker, Professor of Supply Chain Management at the University of South
               Florida.
Muma College of Business Launches Mentoring Program on USF Sarasota-Manatee CampusDecember 13, 2021 The USF Muma College of Business launched a mentoring program on the Sarasota-Manatee
               campus that matches students with business executives.
Six USF Students Awarded Prize Money in Frank and Ellen Daveler Pitch CompetitionDecember 10, 2021 Six University of South Florida students, including three from the Muma College of
               Business, won awards at the annual Frank and Ellen Daveler Entrepreneurship Program
               pitch competition held virtually on Dec. 4.
USF Muma College of Business Students Win Big at Amgen Strategy CompetitionDecember 10, 2021 Two USF Muma College of Business students took the top prize at the Amgen Strategy
               Competition for a strategy proposal aimed at keeping a company’s workforce diverse.
Tampa Bay Wave Launches New FinTech|X Accelerator To Grow Tampa Bay’s National Reputation
                     For FinTech Talent/Innovation - EIN Press WireDecember 9, 2021 Tampa Bay Wave announces FinTech|X, promoting Tampa Bay as a major fintech hub in
               partnership with University of South Florida's Muma College of Business.
USF’s economic impact increases to over $6 billion annually, according to a new study - WUSFDecember 9, 2021 The study analyzes USF's role in enhancing the growth in the Tampa Bay region and
               the state of Florida.
NASA opens patent portfolio to HCC, USF students in Tampa - 83 DegreesDecember 7, 2021 A Sarasota-based business is partnering with NASA to grow flowering vegetables and
               greens on the International Space Station. By using a silica clay medium like that
               on Mars, the project could facilitate future plant life on the red planet.
Student Spotlight: Sam Hoo Helps Lightning Boost Student Rush Ticket ProgramDecember 3, 2021 When it comes to landing a prime fellowship that gives you real-world experience
               in your field of study, Sam Hoo hit the jackpot.
Student Spotlight: Carlos Taguchi Godoi Bueno Trades Tennis Court For Business ClassroomDecember 3, 2021 Carlos Taguchi Godoi Bueno’s dream of becoming a successful student-athlete playing
               collegiate tennis in the United States ended before it truly began.
Watch: How the Pandemic Affects Supply Chain Sustainability - Supply Chain BrainDecember 3, 2021 Vigilance in dealing with vendors and suppliers is crucial to sustainability, says
               Jim Stock, University of South Florida professor, but the pandemic has interrupted
               inspections and other preventive measures.
Student athletes at UW can now earn money. But it's complicated - CrosscutDecember 3, 2021 The NCAA's rule changes are a boon to some athletes, but limitations and hurdles
               are frustrating to some.
USF announces new partnership to give students access to 93 teaching hotels - Business ObserverDecember 2, 2021 USF and McKibbon Hospitality have teamed up to attack an industry-wide issue: an
               acute talent shortage.
Omicron variant may impact supply chain - ABC Action NewsDecember 2, 2021 As the omicron variant spreads, you've probably read up on how to keep yourself healthy.
New Rankings Keep USF Part-time MBA and Graduate Entrepreneurship Programs Among Top
                  in NationDecember 2, 2021 
See where USF, UT land among the best entrepreneur programs in the country - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 1, 2021 Entrepreneur programs have been increasing in popularity in the last decade, along
               with businesses' buy-in to bolstering the offerings.
Cyber Monday? Cyber Weekend? Cyber Week? It's the busiest ecommerce time of the year - Sarasota Herald-TribuneNovember 29, 2021 Cyber Monday is Nov. 29, but the emails started way sooner.
Retailers closing on the holidays is 'the right thing to do,' USF marketing professor
                     says - ABC Action NewsNovember 25, 2021 Carol Osborne, a marketing professor at the University of South Florida and Director
               of the Zimmerman Advertising Program, said she believes stores should close on the
               holiday. She thinks it is a positive thing for both the consumer and employees.
Retailers closing on the holidays is ‘the right thing to do’ - EminetraNovember 25, 2021 Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Coles, Target, JCPenny and Dick’s sporting goods were one of
               the ones that closed on Thursday.
Tampa hotel company’s USF deal aims to train hospitality’s next generation - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 24, 2021 The hotel industry needs new leaders, says McKibbon Hospitality’s Randy Hassen. Turning
               hotels into classrooms will help.
The impact of the supply chain crisis - Bay News 9November 24, 2021 The supply chain issues are not new but the pandemic exposed this problem like never
               before.
Workers and small businesses want vaccine mandates, so why is Gov. DeSantis stopping
                     them? | Column - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 24, 2021 Gov. Ron DeSantis, in a recent speech to the Florida Chamber of Commerce, blasted
               corporate America for supposedly “kowtowing to a very elite ideology and an ideology
               that’s not reflective of the vast vast majority of the country.”
Host an unforgettable meal with science and a personal touch - Popular ScienceNovember 22, 2021 Even if your food isn't great, dinner can still be memorable.
Publix Limiting Thanksgiving Food Items - WFLANovember 22, 2021 Seckin Ozkul is the director of the supply chain innovation lab at USF. He says Publix
               is trying to prevent what happened in the early days of the pandemic.
USF and hotel operator partner to help train the next generation of hospitality managers - Herald-TribuneNovember 21, 2021 When Cihan Cobanoglu took over as dean of USF's School of Tourism and Hospitality
               Management in August, one question he asked was how the college was different compared
               to other programs across the state.
USF and hotel operator partner to help train the next generation of hospitality managers - Yahoo! NewsNovember 21, 2021 When Cihan Cobanoglu took over as dean of USF's School of Tourism and Hospitality
               Management in August, one question he asked was how the college was different compared
               to other programs across the state.
Inflation: Why is it so bad, and what it means for St. Pete and the holidays - CatalystNovember 20, 2021 The holidays can be a stressful time; cooking, cleaning, decorating, in-laws and
               holiday shopping are enough to occasionally bring out the Grinch in anyone, and now
               families across the U.S. have an added worry – the highest inflation in 30 years.
It’s a bad time to buy used cars in Tampa Bay. Blame the supply chain. - Yahoo! NewsNovember 19, 2021 Troy Julian calls them “vanilla cars.” Nissan Altimas, Hyundai Sonatas, Kia Optimas,
               Chevy Impalas — the sort of middle-of-the-road vehicles independent used-car dealers
               often pass up at wholesale auctions.
Firm establishes five-year gift for accounting students - Business ObserverNovember 18, 2021 The partnership will provide scholarship and internship opportunities.
Price of Paradise: A broken supply, impacts to businesses and why Florida is positioned
                     to benefit - ABC Action NewsNovember 18, 2021 Costs are going up, and it's anyone's guess how long it lasts and if they will ever
               go back down.
The Student Managed Investment Fund reaches milestone, exceeds $1.5MNovember 16, 2021 Under one consolidated Muma College of Business USF now holds stocks in two student
               managed investment funds, one on the Tampa campus and one on the St. Pete campus.
USF becomes Florida’s top university for international students - USF NewsNovember 16, 2021 New report on international student enrollment finds USF is a leader for global diversity
Top 50 Best Graduate Programs for Entrepreneurs in 2022 - EntrepreneurNovember 16, 2021 The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur have again partnered to rank the top programs
               for studying entrepreneurship at the graduate level.
Professor to Join Board of Government Accounting Standard-Setter - Bloomberg TaxNovember 16, 2021 Jacqueline Reck, associate dean of financial management and academic affairs at the
               Muma College of Business at the University of South Florida, will join the accounting
               standard-setter for state and local governments.
The Great Resignation: Survey finds employees want flexibility, but are managers ready
                     to oblige? - Fox 13November 15, 2021 About 4.4 million people quit their jobs in September, a record high according to
               the U.S. Labor Department.
Tech CEOs credit USF talent pipeline for decision to expand and relocate to Tampa
                     Bay - USF NewsNovember 15, 2021 Tampa Bay is one of the nation’s fastest growing regions and much of that success
               is associated with the talent pipeline created by the University of South Florida.
USF teams with McKibbon Hospitality on a hands-on ‘teaching hotel’ program - WUSFNovember 15, 2021 The partnership will allow students to train in hotel work at McKibbon properties
               like Marriott, Hyatt, and Hilton.
Yes, some companies are charging customers a ‘supply chain surcharge’ - WTSPNovember 14, 2021 As pandemic-related shortages and supply chain issues persist, companies are passing
               higher prices onto customers.
Arena Bonds Failed in Denver and Albuquerque: Here's Why - WestwordNovember 14, 2021 The National Western Center hoped to replace the Denver Coliseum with a multi-use
               arena, but voters rejected the proposal.
Kerkering Barberio Establishes Gift to Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy - SRQ MagazineNovember 12, 2021 Kerkering, Barberio & Co., Certified Public Accountants, has established a five-year
               gift to the University of South Florida Muma College of Business that will encompass
               multiple components in the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, including scholarships
               to students.
College students, inns profit from hands-on school program - Tucker Tourism NewsNovember 11, 2021 Students at the University of South Florida‘S Hospitality and Tourism Management
               School will soon be able to gain first practical experience in a hotel diploma.
With McKibbon partnership, USF’s hospitality workforce pipeline to expand - CatalystNovember 11, 2021 The University of South Florida is gearing up to expand its hospitality program in
               the midst of a growing workforce shortage in Tampa Bay.
5 Things To Know for Nov. 11 - CoStarNovember 11, 2021 Tampa, Florida-based hotel management company McKibbon Hospitality has formed a partnership
               with the University of South Florida to help train hospitality students.
USF and McKibbon Hospitality partner to turn iconic hotel brands into teaching labsNovember 10, 2021 The University of South Florida is teaming up with a hotel management powerhouse
               that runs some of the world’s largest hotel brands to fill that pipeline of hospitality
               industry workers.
Muma Researchers Ranked Among Top 2% in World by Stanford UniversityNovember 10, 2021 A study by Stanford University has placed six USF Muma College of Business faculty
               among the top 2% of scientists in the world.
Partnership between USF and McKibbon Hospitality creates hospitality teaching lab
                     with iconic hotel brands - USF NewsNovember 10, 2021 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business and McKibbon Hospitality
               today announced a new partnership that will turn some premier hotel brands into intensive
               student training grounds.
USF, McKibbon Hospitality Create Hospitality Teaching Lab - Sarasota MagazineNovember 10, 2021 USF hospitality and tourism management students will have access to nearly 100 teaching
               hotels across the country that are managed by McKibbon.
USF, McKibbon Hospitality join to train students headed for hotel careers - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 10, 2021 Students will be able to learn the business at McKibbon properties around the nation.
Students, hotels benefit from hands-on college program - Fox 13 Tampa BayNovember 10, 2021 Students at the University of South Florida's School of Hospitality and Tourism Management
               will soon be able to get hands-on experience working in a hotel before graduation.
Muma College of Business launches partnership with McKibbon Hospitality - The OracleNovember 10, 2021 The Muma College of Business launched a partnership with McKibbon Hospitality, creating
               a teaching lab program for students across 100 nationwide hotels.
Exclusive: USF teams up with McKibbon Hospitality to create more than 100 teaching
                     hotels - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 10, 2021 University of South Florida hospitality students will soon have access to learn in
               nearly 100 hotels across the nation as part of a new partnership between USF and McKibbon
               Hospitality.
USF, McKibbon Hospitality create hospitality teaching lab - Hotel ManagementNovember 10, 2021 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business and McKibbon Hospitality
               have formed a new partnership to turn some hotel brands into intensive student training
               grounds.
Gil lands JP Morgan Global Finance Internship in NYCNovember 9, 2021 Xiomara Mantes Gil, a junior majoring in finance and business analytics, has earned
               herself a spot in the JP Morgan Global Finance Internship program in New York City
               for the Summer of 2022.
USF and Tampa Bay Wave partnership aims to make region major fintech hub - The Tampa Bay 100November 9, 2021 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business and Tampa Bay Wave is launching
               the FinTech|X Accelerator, designed to assist startups in finance technology.
Holidays come early as retail ramps up - The Villages Daily SunNovember 8, 2021 With supply chain issues threatening to disrupt Christmas shopping this season, local
               businesses are ready to step in and save the day.
Infrastructure Bill Funding - Bay News 9November 8, 2021 USF professor of supply chain management, Robert Hooker says there's not money for
               these improvements, but keeping track of where it's going is just as important.
Gaming the political system corrupts us all | Column - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 8, 2021 The United States has fallen into the ranks of flawed democracies. Let’s stop the
               slide.
THAT'S ALL I'M SAYING November 2021: Tampa Bay Pro Sports Impact On EconomicsNovember 4, 2021 Exploring the connections, if any, between the recent success of Tampa Bay area sports
               franchises and the economics of our region.
How scents, lighting, and music can ease diners back into restaurants - The HustleNovember 4, 2021 Experts believe scents, lighting, and music could be key to luring diners back indoors.
2021's Best Places to Retire in Florida - WalletHubNovember 3, 2021 Florida may not be the ideal place for retirees at the moment due to the COVID-19
               pandemic and rising cases. Once the pandemic is under control, though, it should continue
               to rank as the best state for Americans to spend their golden years.
Partnership between USF and Tampa Bay Wave aims to make region major fintech hub with
                     new St. Petersburg-based accelerator - USF St. Petersburg Campus NewsNovember 2, 2021 An innovative multi-year partnership between the University of South Florida Muma
               College of Business and Tampa Bay Wave is launching the FinTech|X Accelerator, with
               its first cohort to be selected in 2022.
How Restaurants Can Win Back Customers: What Research Reveals - Wall Street JournalNovember 2, 2021 How do restaurants lure back diners—and boost business—after long months of shutdowns
               and mandates? Researchers may have some answers.
USF, Tampa Bay Wave create multiyear startup accelerator - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 2, 2021 Cohort companies will participate in a demo day event to a room full of accredited
               investors and venture capitalists at the end of the program.
USF, Tampa Bay Wave collaborate on new St. Pete-based fintech accelerator - CatalystNovember 2, 2021 Tampa Bay Wave and the University of South Florida Muma College of Business are launching
               a new accelerator to bolster the fintech industry in the region.
Small and diverse business owners prepped to bolster profits with conclusion of new
                     USF-Skanska mentor-protégé program - USF NewsNovember 1, 2021 The inaugural cohort of the Construction Management Building Blocks mentor-protégé
               program has graduated after completing eight weeks of training with industry professionals
               from the University of South Florida and Skanska, a multinational construction and
               development company.
Bulls Bistro Caters to Community While Letting USF Hospitality Management Students
                     ShineOctober 29, 2021 On a recent Thursday night, about 35 local patrons enjoyed dinner out along Main
               Street in Lakewood Ranch.
Tampa General, USF Announce People Development Institute - PatchOctober 29, 2021 The first of its kind in the country, the comprehensive educational program is committed
               to enriching the careers of healthcare workers.
What Tom Hanks and ‘Cast Away’ can teach us about inflation, immigration and the American
                     economy | Column - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 29, 2021 Tom Hanks yells at "Wilson," the volleyball, which kept his character company on
               an island in the movie "Cast Away." What can his marooned character teach us about
               the American economy?
Experts encourage people to start holiday shopping early as supply issues will likely
                     worsen - ABC Action NewsOctober 28, 2021 “It’s the perfect storm, right? We’re hearing about this everywhere,” said Robert
               Hooker, Professor of Supply Chain Management at the University of South Florida.
Tampa Bay food banks brace as rising prices foreshadow hunger increase - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 28, 2021 Acquiring turkeys for charitable meals usually gets tricky a week or two before Thanksgiving.
               Groups wanting to offer last-minute events through Feeding Tampa Bay often have to
               pick a different entrée.
USF Celebrates Grand Opening of Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management &
                  SustainabilityOctober 26, 2021 The importance of training USF students on the challenging and complex ways to unravel
               the nation’s supply chain knots was at the forefront of Tuesday’s ribbon-cutting ceremony.
Moffitt CEO Predicts Cure for Cancer Within 50 YearsOctober 21, 2021 Nearly a year since taking the helm at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Patrick
               Hwu is on a mission to stamp out cancer within 50 years — possibly even within 30
               to 40 years — by bridging the business and scientific research communities together.
2022’s Best Colleges Ranking - WalletHubOctober 18, 2021 Size matters when it comes to higher education. That’s generally true when choosing
               between colleges and universities. Although the term “college” is used broadly to
               refer to post-secondary education in the U.S., it’s more narrowly defined as a smaller
               institution than a large university.
Muma tests HyFlex class modality for future semesters - The OracleOctober 17, 2021 The Muma College of Business has been experimenting with a HyFlex modality of teaching,
               where students can take a course synchronously online or in the classroom, which will
               be extended to spring for further evaluation.
Alumnus Spotlight: Samuel Armes on the Front Lines of Cryptocurrency, Blockchain Surge
                     in FloridaOctober 14, 2021 Sam Armes has a front-row seat to the cryptocurrency revolution taking place in Florida.
               The 2018 USF graduate with bachelor’s degrees in economics and finance is the founder
               and president of the Florida Blockchain Business Association, a nonprofit focused
               on promoting cryptocurrency- and blockchain-friendly policies in Florida.
TGH expands USF relationship with new Muma partnership to boost talent pipeline - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 14, 2021 Tampa General Hospital has further expanded its relationship with the University
               of South Florida with its latest partnership with the Muma College of Business.
Tampa General, USF create new People Development Institute - CatalystOctober 14, 2021 Through a new partnership with the University of South Florida’s Muma College of
               Business, Tampa General Hospital looks to invest in its most valuable resource – its
               people.
Muma College of Business and TGH Create a Program to Teach Hospital Staff Critical
                  People SkillsOctober 13, 2021 USF’s Muma College of Business and Tampa General Hospital today announced the launch
               of a groundbreaking initiative to provide critical people skills to hospital staff
               ranging from top-shelf surgeons to valets.
Angry Online Reviews Are Not Helpful But Can Influence Consumer’s Decision Upon Purchase,
                     Study Says - The Science TimesOctober 13, 2021 Online e-commerce platforms have been actively serving their customers throughout
               the past decade, and the demands for online products have been heightened because
               of the pandemic.
Muma College of Business Offering Full Online DBA DegreeOctober 12, 2021 The popular Muma College of Business’ Doctor of Business Administration program,
               which provides seasoned business executives with a chance to further their careers
               through rigorous research and networking opportunities, is set to offer its instruction
               completely online.
Anonymous Donor Makes Executive MBA Student Pitches Matter for NonprofitsOctober 12, 2021 Students in the Muma College of Business Executive MBA program learn the intricacies
               of leadership, the value of human resources, a bit of accounting and information systems
               and the latest trends in marketing.
Amid Supply Chain Crunch, Analyst Warns ‘There Will Definitely Be Weeping Children’
                     During Christmas - The Epoch TimesOctober 11, 2021 The supply chain crunch is starting to threaten holiday shoppers’ wishlists, said
               financial experts this week.
Study Finds Use of Anger in Online Reviews Simultaneously Unhelpful but Influential
                     in Purchase Decisions - Georgia TechOctober 8, 2021 E-commerce shopping has risen sharply over the last decade, and most consumers are
               now reading product reviews prior to making their purchase decisions.
Supply chain havoc is getting worse — just in time for holiday shopping - Vox recodeOctober 7, 2021 The most popular holiday gifts might not arrive in time for the holidays, even if
               you order now.
Hey Tampa Bay, where are our Uncrustables? And other snacks gone AWOL - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 6, 2021 There’s a particularly plaintive pandemic-related consumer complaint currently playing
               out on Facebook and Twitter: Oh, Uncrustables. Where have you gone?
What Happens If We Default? - Spectrum News 13October 6, 2021 It's like a domino effect. America's credit rates go up. That causes banks to limit
               the money they lend. Small businesses are impacted, leading to layoffs, no money,
               no bills and on and on.
Patrick Hwu, president and CEO of Moffitt Cancer Center, to be the Next Guest at the
                  Conversation with a CEOOctober 5, 2021 Not satisfied that the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center already has an international
               reputation as a leading cancer research hospital, Patrick Hwu plans to take it not
               only to the next level, but to the top tier of research facilities on the planet –
               and, perhaps, beyond.
Helpful Reviews are Ranked First, So Unhelpful Ones Should Matter Less? A New Study
                  Reveals the Curious Case of Angry ReviewsSeptember 30, 2021 What do reviews of products or services tell us? Learn how researchers examine the
               commonly accepted assumption that helpful reviews are more impactful on future consumers'
               decision-making, and the commonly observed emotion of anger expressed in reviews.
"Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in the Workplace" Certificate Offered as a Self-paced
                  ProgramSeptember 28, 2021 A self-paced version of the relevant and impactful “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
               in the Workplace” certificate program is being offered through the USF Muma College
               of Business.
USF hopes new esports lab brings students together - Fox 13 Tampa BaySeptember 23, 2021 Esports has a big interest and big money worldwide, meaning new rivalries in college
               sports may be on the screen and not on the field.
Student Spotlight: Philip Jimenez Focuses on a Career in Underwriting After 15 Years
                  as Baggage HandlerSeptember 22, 2021 Thirty-five-year-old Philip Jimenez was working full time as a ramp agent with Southwest
               Airlines at Tampa International Airport and had been for 15 years when he reached
               a point at which the physical job began taking its toll on his body.
How to Move Workplace Diversity and Inclusion From Awareness to Action - Yahoo! FinanceSeptember 21, 2021 Duke Energy employees earn DE&I certificate from University of South Florida program
               focused on inclusive change in the workplace
Esports enhances its visibility at USF - USF NewsSeptember 20, 2021 USF Esports will soon have a physical presence on the Tampa campus. Located inside
               the Recreation and Wellness Center, the 2,500-square-foot Esports Living Lab will
               feature 40 PCs and will be divided into spaces for casual gaming and watch parties,
               content creation and competitive gaming.
Product shortages one reason you should start your holiday shopping now - 10 Tampa BaySeptember 16, 2021 Shopping for the holidays right now might seem too early for some, but major issues
               in the supply chain are expected to impact package deliveries and store shelves.
Might want to start that Christmas shopping now, Tampa Bay. Thanks, pandemic. - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 16, 2021 Will someone in your household be hoping for a LEGO Harry Potter Hogwarts Chess Set
               under the Christmas tree this year?
Is it better to buy or rent in Tampa Bay? Both come with hurdles - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 14, 2021 To rent or buy a house? That is the question many around Tampa Bay face when looking
               for a place to live right now.
Marketing Class to Create a Shark Awareness Public Service Campaign for the FWCSeptember 13,  2021 Ever since “Jaws” splashed across the big screen in 1975, sharks in general have
               gotten some pretty bad press. Beachgoers stopped wading in surf that came up past
               their knees and many just plain stopped going into the water at all.
Are Monday Blues Real? Here’s What Research Says - ForbesSeptember 12, 2021 A new study examined two competing theories about how employees perceive Mondays,
               and it turns out employees view the beginning of the week differently from the end.
HART CEO Adelee Le Grand to be the Guest at the Next Conversation with a CEOSeptember 10, 2021 Adelee Marie Le Grand, the relatively new CEO of HART, the public transportation
               system in Hillsborough County, was brought on board to rebuild and revise the system.
Conversation with a CEO Guest Mike Sutton Leads Habitat to National RecognitionSeptember 9, 2021 Mike Sutton has been with Habitat for Humanity of Pinellas and West Pasco Counties
               for nearly eight years and even though he oversaw a merger and brought national recognition
               to the affiliate, he’s just getting started.
Biz Researchers Study What You're Missing When You Look Over an Online MenuSeptember 8, 2021 With the aid of emotional AI tools, researchers with the USF Center for Marketing
               and Sales Innovation have taken a hard look at online menus’ composition to determine
               what is appealing to customers and what remains hidden in plain sight.
Business Honors Students Make Debut on St. Petersburg CampusSeptember 8, 2021 The fall 2021 semester launched the inaugural Muma College of Business’s cohort of
               Business Honors Students on the St. Petersburg campus.
Tampa rent prices up 22 percent in 2021, data shows - News Channel 8September 8, 2021 Are you new to Tampa and or trying to find a place to live? Turns out you have a
               pretty steep hill to climb with this current rental market. But why, is the question?
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Ranked No. 3 in the World: SportBusiness
                     Postgraduate Course RankingsSeptember 7, 2021 The USF Muma College of Business’s Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program
               again is listed among the elite on the planet.
Pat Nickinson, Sworn Enemy of the Dangling Participle, Devoted Lover of Literary Nuance,
                  RetiresSeptember 7, 2021 For many Muma College of Business faculty, staff and students who have written important
               reports, impactful research papers or even thank-you letters knows of the importance
               of a good editor.
Michelle Harrolle, USF | Universities rising to the challenge of educating esports
                     leaders - SportsBusinessSeptember 7, 2021 Michelle Harrolle, director of the University of South Florida's Vinik Sport & Entertainment
               Management programme, writes that universities have a chance to get in on the ground
               floor by offering cutting-edge education to the esports leaders of the future.
Ohio crowned world’s best postgraduate sport management course by SportBusiness - SportsBusinessSeptember 7, 2021 In third place is the University of South Florida’s Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management
               Program, which furthers its impressive rise up our rankings, having only launched
               itself in 2012.
Startup with Tampa ties hits $1B unicorn status with latest investment - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 2, 2021 The Boston-based company plans to hire at least 50 more local employees by the end
               of the year.
Tampa Bay Wave unveils startups to watch, new fintech focus at latest pitch night - TampaBayInnoSeptember 2, 2021 The Tampa Bay Wave closed Q3 by featuring 15 must-know companies from its latest
               TechDiversity cohort.
What to Buy (and Skip) in September 2021 - Yahoo! FinanceSeptember 2, 2021 Thanks to seasonal retail cycles, products tend to go on sale at the same time each
               year. September is known for blowout deals on mattresses, appliances and outdoor furniture.
The Best Small Business Insurance Companies for 2021 - AdvisorSmithSeptember 1, 2021 Finding the right insurance for your small business is an important step in protecting
               your company and achieving long-term success.
US Cities Most Impacted by Leisure and Hospitality Job Loss and Recovery - moneygeekSeptember 1, 2021 COVID-19 has impacted every sector of the economy, but the leisure and hospitality
               (L&H) industry has been hit particularly hard.
Finance Professor Researches Connections Between the Stock Market and Presidential
                  PowerAugust 31, 2021 Looking for new ways to invest in the stock market? Consider presidential power and
               political geography.
New Data Finds Game Based Learning is More Effective Than Traditional Video-Based
                     Learning - Globe NewswireAugust 30, 2021 A New Study from the University of South Florida Demonstrates Game-Based Learning
               on 1Huddle is 2X More Effective than LinkedIn Learning
Student Spotlight: Brittney Canning Leaves Laurels Behind, Focuses on the FutureAugust 20, 2021 This summer, she found herself in Salt Lake City, as a summer analyst with Goldman
               Sachs for a nine-week summer program to support the Client Implementation Team within
               the Global Markets Operations Division.
Alumnus Spotlight: Loren Isakson, Allergist, Immunologist, Pediatrician, Beats the
                  Drums on the SideAugust 13, 2021 Calling Loren Isakson a Renaissance man is almost an insult. He is an allergist,
               immunologist, pediatrician who helped establish a clinic on MacDill Air Force Base,
               treated patients for free in St. Petersburg, coached lacrosse to 9-year-old kids,
               takes acoustic guitar lessons, does the occasional pencil sketch and plays drums for
               a classic rock ‘n’ roll band.
Rent is higher than the average mortgage in Tampa Bay, experts say - Fox 13 Tampa BayAugust 13, 2021 Rent in the Tampa Bay area increased by 20% compared to last year, putting the region
               in the top five metros for having the highest rent increases in the country, according
               to data analyzed by Dr. Lei Wedge, an associate professor of finance from the University
               of South Florida specializing in real estate.
Pat Moreo, Dean of the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management for Five Years
                  Steps DownAugust 12, 2021 Pat Moreo, the dean of the Muma College of Business’ School of Hospitality and Tourism
               Management, is stepping down after five years at the helm of the innovative and evolving
               program.
Student Spotlight: Nia'Symone Francisco's Spoken Word Is Heard Loud and ClearAugust 5, 2021 Nia’Symone Francisco takes her academics seriously – she’s studying for a business
               advertising degree – because she knows that advertising and marketing is one of the
               many ways to make an impact on the world.
Tech job boom in Tampa Bay continues as companies relocate to Sunshine State - Fox 13July 20, 2021 Hundreds of jobs are up for grabs in the Tampa Bay area, but one of the hottest markets
               right now is the technology industry.
Biz/Sports Professor: Court Ruling and NCAA Changes Will Lead to Big Changes in College
                  AthleticsJuly 14, 2021 A gathering storm for college athletes hit last month. A U.S. Supreme Court decision
               first opened the way for universities to pay athletes and provide other benefits related
               to education.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Grad Students Help Stage Esports CompetitionJuly 13, 2021 Students with the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program got a taste last
               month of what it’s like to stage an esports competition, serving as production assistants,
               social media assistants and stream supporters, all paid positions in the inaugural
               Tampa Beasley Gaming Series Tournament.
Alumnus Spotlight: Nicholas Morris Reflects on his Time Studying Finance at USFJuly 13, 2021 Nicholas Morris just finished his degree in finance with a minor in entrepreneurial
               studies and the Tampa native, who studied both in the Muma College of Business and
               the USF Judy Genshaft Honors College, is on the threshold of the next chapter of his
               life. Still, he looks back at his academic career fondly.
USF Hospitality Leadership Program reimagined to help industry address staffing crisis - USF St. Petersburg Campus NewsJuly 13, 2021 To address an ongoing staffing crisis, the University of South Florida’s Hospitality
               Leadership Program is being re-tooled to help industry leaders in the Tampa Bay area
               hire and retain top talent.
Ethics and Debate Team brings home first place at the International Business Ethics
                  Case CompetitionJuly 12, 2021 The Ethics and Debate Team, a student organization sponsored by USF’s Bishop Center
               for Ethical Leadership, has risen above the pandemic and continues to bring home awards.
MSA students place second in National Sports Forum’s Case Cup Competition - Ohio University NewsJuly 7, 2021 OHIO was one of 12 teams that competed in the Case Cup. In the preliminary round,
               the team went up against Grambling State, University of Oregon, and University of
               Texas at El Paso, and they were named one of three finalists along with University
               of South Florida and University of Massachusetts.
Twenty students awarded scholarships to take SIE ExamJuly 2, 2021 In the spring 2021 semester, the Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance launched
               the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) Exam Scholarship Program. The program, sponsored
               by Franklin Templeton, provided 20 scholarships for students to take the exam.
Muma College of Business Management Expert: Disenfranchised Gen Xers About to Spark
                  a Workforce MigrationJuly 2, 2021 As corporate executives wrangle with an evolving workforce dynamic in the wake of
               the COVID-19 pandemic, including more flextime and remoting, they now have this challenge:
               Employees, especially the younger ones, are seriously considering just plain quitting.
Chessler Holdings Donates $500,000 to Fund HUSTLE, an Entrepreneurship ProgramJuly 1, 2021 USF students interested in owning their own business have a chance to participate
               in a real-world start-up venture using autonomous and robotic food production kiosks
               and earning $20 per hour -- and potentially some of the company's profits -- thanks
               to a new $500,000 initiative between Chessler Holdings and the University of South
               Florida Center for Entrepreneurship.
Coronavirus and 4th of July: 36% of Americans Will Spend More Money This Year - WalletHubJun 28, 2021 The 4th of July is one of America’s most treasured holidays, and Americans typically
               celebrate the anniversary of their independence with massive parades, flashy fireworks
               displays, family gatherings, beach trips and more.
Take notice of unexpected surprise from the Child Tax Credit advance payments - Bay News 9June 23, 2021 Make sure you talk to your accountant soon and determine if you need to unenroll
               in the American Rescue Plan’s Child Tax Credit’s expanded benefits.
Food costs are way up, and Tampa Bay restaurants are feeling the crunch - Tampa Bay TimesJune 19, 2021 Pandemic-related production lags are causing shortages in a reinvigorated restaurant
               industry.
Business Researchers Find CEOs Have Big Hearts During the PandemicJune 18, 2021 An in-depth study of how corporate America responded during the COVID-19 crisis has
               found something uplifting: Chief executive officers have generally turned out in support
               of their communities, fulfilling social responsibilities, and in particular, making
               donations to the community.
The 10 Best Books On Communication Skills - Hurricane Valley TimesJune 16, 2021 Communication skills in the 21st century have come to be valued above specialized
               knowledge and professional experience. Because all relationships – not only personal
               but also business ones – are built and maintained through communication.
Alumni Spotlight: Chris Arroyo, First in his Family to Attend College, Heads to Georgetown
                     to Study Finance as a Post GraduateJune 15, 2021 In spite of the obstacles that stood in his way, Chris Arroyo was not going to let
               them stand in the way of a college degree.
How adapting during a pandemic made us stronger - SportsBusiness UniversityJune 15, 2021 Janelle E. Wells, associate professor at the University of South Florida's Vinik
               Sport & Entertainment Management Program, on the lessons learned when students' practice
               interviews with partners were moved online.
USF Accounting Circle's Annual CPE Conference Honors Deloitte US CEO Joe Ucuzoglu
                  with Lynn Pippenger Recognition AwardJune 14, 2021 The 2021 Accounting Circle CPE Conference, hosted May 20-21, by the Lynn Pippenger
               School of Accountancy within the USF Muma College of Business, featured leaders and
               experts from around the nation, who spoke to key industry trends and the emergence
               of the industry following the pandemic.
2021’s Best Cities for Hockey Fans - WalletHubJune 14, 2021 Hockey, like all sports, was impacted greatly by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the NHL
               could be facing around $2.5 billion in lost revenue as a result. That said, the 2020-21
               season has still proceeded despite some delays, and the Stanley Cup semifinals are
               approaching.
Health and media experts discuss why some people don’t trust the COVID-19 vaccine - USF St. Petersburg Campus NewsroomJune 14, 2021 More than half the population has received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.
               Case numbers are declining, but with nearly half of the people not yet vaccinated,
               it’s clear that trust is not there for many Americans.
USF Experts Explore Trust In COVID-19 Vaccines - WUSFJune 10, 2021 Health experts say vaccine engagement efforts are helping build trust in communities,
               but there is still a lot of work to do.
Teaching through the pandemic | Suncoast View - ABC 7June 9, 2021
The Rays' Future In Tampa Bay Remains Murky After Recent Drama Among St. Petersburg
                     Officials - WUSFJune 8, 2021 Late May brought a whole new round of tense discussions about the team's future here.
               Only this time, it mostly involved St. Pete's mayor and the City Council.
Richard Kopelman, CEO of Aprio, Talks Pandemic, Diversity, Analytics at Conversation
                  with a CEOJune 4, 2021 Richard Kopelman has come a long way from when he was 13, helping his mother make
               cold sales calls in South Florida. For pre-paid funerals.
As the Travel and Tourism Industry Rebounds, USF Hospitality Program Keeps PaceJune 4, 2021 Anastasia Taylor was just settling in to what she had hoped would a long career in
               the hospitality and tourism industry.
Feeling anxious about getting back to a traditional workplace? - 83 Degrees MediaJune 2, 2021 Russell Clayton, an expert in the USF Muma College of Business School of Marketing
               and Innovation, talks solutions for going back to a traditional workplace after months
               of working remotely and from home.
You Were Unsure about Working Remotely, Now You're Unsure about Returning to the Office.
                  Russell Clayton Has the AnswersMay 27, 2021 Some 15 months ago, the face of the American workplace changed. Has it changed forever?
               Perhaps. Maybe some innovations will stick.
Graduate Students Win Top Honors in International Case CompetitionMay 27, 2021 A team of graduate students in the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program
               took first prize in the National Sports Forum case competition earlier this month,
               winning out over a dozen other schools from the United States and around the world.
Job Ghosting - Fox 13 Tampa BayMay 25, 2021 Russell Clayton teaches business administration at the University of South Florida.
               Speaking remotely, he tells us the consequences could follow you.
What an Analysis of Covid-19-related Lawsuits Shows About the Future of Hotels and
                     Restaurants - HospitalityNetMay 21, 2021 Even businesses with ‘business-interruption’ coverage fail to win awards from insurance
               firms. But no lawsuits were found to have been filed by customers who became ill.
Annual Forum Features Cutting-Edge Business Analytics Experts from Across the NationMay 20, 2021 Artificial intelligence identifies, screens and in some cases treats children with
               dyslexia. Algorithms now detect high-risk patients to funnel them into preventative
               care programs. Other algorithms can predict a patient’s mortality based on random
               scans of chest X-rays.
Travel Influencers Used To Have The Dream Job. Where Will They Go Next? - Refinery29May 18, 2021 When the pandemic hit last spring, popular travel and food YouTuber Mark Wiens was
               relatively lucky: He had recently returned home to Thailand, narrowly avoiding being
               stuck abroad when the country locked down. In other ways, he wasn’t so lucky.
USF Muma College of Business hosts forum on business analytics - ModernGlobeMay 18, 2021 Healthcare will be a major focus of this year’s Florida Business Analytics Forum,
               taking place on Thursday. The event is hosted by the University of South Florida’s
               Muma College of Business.
Are Companies Really Learning From Failure? - WilmingtonBiz InsightsMay 14, 2021 Their research suggests that companies should consider conjoining failure tolerance
               with structured conversations that steer employees in a direction of productivity
               rather than embarrassment or resentment by peers.
Muma College of Business Students Earn Golden Bull AwardsMay 12, 2021 Two exceptional Muma College of Business students were honored with Golden Bull awards,
               recognizing not only their academic accomplishments, but also their leadership skills
               and engagement capabilities with USF communities and beyond.
Muma College of Business Plays a Major Role in Tampa's Economic Advisory Committee's
                  Findings, RecommendationsMay 12, 2021 The city of Tampa is moving forward with a plan to improve the quality of life for
               its citizens by promoting inclusion, economic growth, poverty reduction, racial equality
               commitments and emphasizing educational opportunity.
Two USF Students Win Scholarship Money in Annual Frank and Ellen Daveler Pitch CompetitionMay 12, 2021 Two University of South Florida students, including one enrolled in the Zimmerman
               Advertising Program, won scholarships at the annual Frank and Ellen Daveler Pitch
               Competition held on a virtual format last month.
Donna Davis, Marketing Professor and Former Chair, RetiresMay 12, 2021 Donna Davis, a Muma College of Business professor since 2013, former chair of what
               is now the School of Marketing and Innovation, and academic director of the Monica
               Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management and Sustainability, retired this month.
Workforce shortage contributing to a product shortage, experts say - Fox 4May 11, 2021 More than a year after pandemic began, product shortage still a problem
Women and Leadership Initiative’s Mentorship Forward Supports MBA Students -Women
                     of Color and their AlliesMay 7, 2021 The Women and Leadership Initiative’s Graduate Business Mentorship Forward Program,
               in keeping with the overall WALI theme of race and representation, has two focuses
               this year.
Help wanted crisis has restaurants scrambling - Business ObserverMay 6, 2021 The timing is like burnt toast: just as the economy opens up, restaurants are facing
               a critical shortage of employees. But solutions are percolating.
Sports betting in Florida is a bigger bet than you think - BollyinsideMay 6, 2021 Turn to that tried-and-true favorite: the sin tax. It’s easy. Select a behavior that
               people want to undertake but is illegal.
Going to the mall in Tampa? In the future, that could look very different - Tampa Bay TimesApril 29, 2021 Before long you won’t recognize Westshore Plaza and University Mall. Meanwhile, upscale
               International Plaza plans to keep on keeping on.
Tampa continues to struggle in economic competitiveness compared to other metro areas - Bay News 9April 28, 2021 Two different economic reports released last week reveals what has been an ongoing
               trend for years: Tampa ranks behind many of its peer cities nationally and in Florida
               when it comes to key economic measures such as job growth rate, local average wage,
               household income and education attainment.
Mayor Castor's Economic Advisory Committee - Bay News 9April 28, 2021
Committee releases report on inclusive economic growth in Tampa - Bay News 9April 26, 2021 An economic advisory committee appointed by the Mayor of Tampa has outlined where
               the city measures up when it comes to inclusive economic growth.
Tampa Vows To Address Racial And Educational Divide - WJCTApril 26, 2021 The region's economy is bouncing back from the pandemic, and some local officials
               are trying to make sure the growth reaches everyone.
Workforce 2021: How Tampa’s top educational institutions are addressing workforce
                     needs - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 23, 2021 In an ever-changing workforce, the type of education and skills that college students
               need to be effective in their careers is evolving.
Committee Releases Recommendations to Reduce Poverty, Inequality - Patch.comApril 23, 2021 Tampa Mayor Jane Castor's Economic Advisory Committee announced key findings aimed
               at addressing local economic and social disparities.
Survey: 1 in 4 workers plans to switch jobs, post-pandemic - Fox 13 Tampa BayApril 22, 2021 A new Prudential survey of 2,000 people found one in four workers plans to switch
               jobs once the health crisis calms down, so companies may risk losing talented workers
               if they don’t change.
Tampa's advisory committee makes recommendations for economic growth - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 22, 2021 The report focused on four key areas: promoting inclusive economic growth, reducing
               poverty, committing to racial equity and emphasizing educational opportunity.
Indian students in US welcome easing of OPT rules - The Times of IndiaApril 20, 2021 Indians studying at US universities have welcomed the recent decision by the United
               States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to allow online filing of Optional
               Practical Training (OPT) employment authorisation - or Form I-765.
USF internship program matches students with ethically responsible businesses - CatalystApril 19, 2021 Students from all three USF campuses will participate in the newly created Business
               for Good internship program. The program brings students and business leaders together
               in a consultancy model with the goal of helping businesses achieve their B Corp Certification.
Food tastes better if you see it before smelling it, shows study - Life Sciences NewsApril 15, 2021 The order in which your senses interact with food has a tremendous impact on how
               much you like it.
New study explains why you should look at your food before casting judgment - EurekAlert!April 14, 2021 The order in which your senses interact with food has a tremendous impact on how
               much you like it.
New Research Says WallStreetBets Traders May Be Smarter Than We All Think - MoneyApril 14, 2021 Would you ignore investing advice from a group of Internet trolls who seem eager
               to YOLO away their life savings while calling themselves degenerates and idolizing
               Elon “Daddy Musk”? Probably. But maybe you shouldn’t.
USF partners with eco-friendly businesses for apprenticeship program - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 14, 2021 The University of South Florida has launched a program allowing students to become
               apprentices for socially and environmentally conscious local businesses.
Customer Experience Lab - St. Petersburg, Bridging Community and Academic ResearchApril 13, 2021 Professor Phil Trocchia took over as the director of the USF Customer Experience
               Lab - St. Petersburg (formerly the Consumer Insight and Sales Lab) in the fall of
               2020.
Florida Business Analytics Forum Set for MayApril 13, 2021 Renowned experts of artificial intelligence and machine learning will speak at the
               Florida Business Analytics Forum, hosted by the University of South Florida’s Muma
               College of Business in May.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Offers First Course on Esports Management/MarketingApril 13, 2021 As esports makes its way into mainstream, with gamers making millions and playing
               (before the pandemic) in front of packed arenas, there is the other side of the emerging
               culture away from the splashy graphics and lightning hand-eye coordination.
Internship program pairs students with socially and environmentally responsible businessesApril 13, 2021 More than two dozen students in the colleges of Arts and Sciences, Business, Engineering
               and the Patel College of Global Sustainability will intern with seven businesses across
               various industries in Florida and Texas during the pilot program.
‘I’m Speaking’: Community panels explore gender equity in employment - St. Pete CatalystApril 12, 2021 According to the Equal Pay Today project, U.S. women made just 82 cents on the dollar
               compared to U.S. men in 2020.
AACSB Recognizes Muma College of Business' "Post-Crisis Leadership Certificate ProgramApril 9, 2021 The forward thinking of the USF Muma College of Business in offering a free-of-charge
               certificate focusing on the business community emerging from the worst pandemic in
               a century was recognized last month by the AACSB, the accrediting agency for business
               colleges around the world.
Student Spotlight: Kenu Louissaint Studies Management, Writes BooksApril 9, 2021 Kenu Louissaint was a performer at the Superbowl LV halftime show in Tampa this February.
               But he is not a dancer.
Expert Opinions: The rise of Environmental, Social, and Corporate GovernanceApril 8, 2021 “Success leads to success,” he said. “There has been a lot of work and research done
               on ESG measurements that have shown that companies that score well in their ESG scoring
               have outperformed others.”
Student Spotlight: Jan Hanousek – Following in his dad’s footstepsApril 8, 2021 Not only is Hanousek following his father’s example, but he also conducts research
               alongside him. They are currently working on a number of papers together regarding
               ownership structures, private and public firms.
Alumni Spotlight: Darin Ostrowski, Kopernik Global Investors, LLC.April 8, 2021 “The ASA course was by far the most applicable to real-world experience that you
               can get in any college setting,” Ostrowski said. “The same research I do now in my
               job, we did in that class.”
Faculty Spotlight: Yuting DiGiovanniApril 8, 2021 “It is a course that is directly translated to the work world,” DiGiovanni said,
               “and students find themselves exceling because of this.”
Melissa Seixas, Head of Duke Energy in Florida, Discusses the Glass Ceiling, Diversity
                     at Conversation with a CEOApril 1, 2021 Melissa Seixas flies in the face of parents’ argument that a university education
               must be tailored for gainful employment after graduation.
A Pair of Business School Professors Made Their Students Read Fiction. Amazing Things
                     Happened - Inc.April 1, 2021 Could reading fiction have similar benefits for you and your company?
Duke Energy president shares lessons learned in chat with business school dean - CatalystApril 1, 2021 Newly minted Duke Energy Florida President Melissa Seixas was the guest of honor
               in the latest installment of “Conversation with a CEO” — a series of chats with influential
               business leaders facilitated by Moez Limayem, dean of the University of South Florida’s
               Muma College of Business.
Intelligent.com Announces Best MBA in Entrepreneurship Degree Programs for 2021 - PRWebMarch 31, 2021 Degree holders gain increased earning potential with career opportunities upon graduation
               from these top ranked institutions.
USF, University of Tampa grad programs hold steady in national ranking - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 30, 2021 Both Tampa universities have held their own in a national ranking despite a tumultuous
               year across higher education.
Universities rising to the challenge of educating first generation of esports leaders - SportsBusiness UniversityMarch 23, 2021 We are now seeing another evolution of sports, and it is likely to be the next ‘Big
               League’, in real time: the emergence of esports, not just as a trend among young people
               around the world, but as a multi-billion-dollar business that could globally eclipse
               all other sports within a decade or two.
More than 110,00 register for free "Diversity, Equity and Inclusion" Certificate ProgramMarch 22, 2021 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business’ online certificate program
               about workplace diversity is sparking interest worldwide with more than 110,000 registrants
               – from corporate executives and small business owners to educational leaders and others
               – signed up for the seven-week course.
New study uses facial tracking tools to analyze response to public health advertising - The OracleMarch 22, 2021 Fears surrounding COVID-19 have led to homebound lifestyles across the globe, but
               a team of USF researchers are studying the way those homebodies are responding to
               advertisements that encourage them to seek in-person health care without any fear.
USF, Restaurant & Lodging Association to Explore Covid-19′s Impact on Food Safety - Sarasota MagazineMarch 22, 2021 The virtual panel discussion is titled “Planning for the Future: How Covid-19 Will
               Alter the Food Safety Landscape.”
Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference Goes VirtualMarch 19, 2021 There is a reason high school football Coach Kevin Kelley has won five of the last
               six Arkansas state championships. It’s analytics, stupid.
2021 Progressive Car Insurance Review - WalletHubMarch 19, 2021 There is a big segment of potential customers who strongly rely on reviews when making
               insurance purchase decisions.
145 Million Americans Cannot Afford Another Year Like 2020 - WalletHubMarch 18, 2021 The COVID-19 pandemic had a staggering impact on the U.S. in 2020, both in terms
               of public health and the economy.
Free EDI in the Workplace Certificate at USF - Campus RecMarch 16, 2021 USF Muma College of Business is offering a free, seven-week Diversity, Equity and
               Inclusion in the Workplace certificate program.
Conversation with a CEO: Melissa SeixasMarch 15, 2021 Melissa Seixas may be the new public face of Duke Energy in Florida, but she is no
               stranger to the field of energy production and distribution, having started with the
               utility way back when it was Florida Power.
USF’s M3 Center uses technology to connect scholars and the hospitality industry - Herald-TribuneMarch 15, 2021 The M3 Center for Hospitality Technology and Innovation used specialized software
               and other online technologies, such as Zoom, to connect graduate students and faculty
               members with scholars from Turkey, Pakistan and Arizona.
From Grocery Store Merchandise to COVID-19 Vaccines, the 2021 Florida Supply Chain
                  Summit Explains It AllMarch 10, 2021 Florida, already on the map as a hub for global commerce, now is looking to go where
               no supply chain executive has gone before.
More Than 1,000 High School Students Attend Big Data Days 2021March 10, 2021 More than 1,000 high school students gathered around their computers and mobile devices
               to attend the annual USF Big Data Day, an event that highlights career paths within
               the information systems industry for computer-savvy students and the paths offered
               by USF to get there.
COVID-19 Pandemic Broadens Access to Training for EntrepreneursMarch 9, 2021 With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, the Florida Small Business
               Development Center at the University of South Florida immediately halted all of its
               in-person events.
Add the Data Analysis ToolPak to Excel - Journal of AccountancyMarch 9, 2021 Are you interested in running more advanced data analysis in Excel? If so, you can
               add the Analysis ToolPak to your current version of Excel.
Pandemic continues to keep women out of work - Fox 13 Tampa BayMarch 9, 2021 COVID-19 drove millions out of the workforce when the pandemic first hit, impacting
               women more than men.
USF Sarasota-Manatee to offer master’s program in hospitality - ABC 7 WWSBMarch 9, 2021 The University of South Florida is offering online course options plus an accelerated
               one-year program in Sarasota to help international and part-time students earn a master’s
               degree in hospitality management.
Business Students from Sarasota-Manatee Campus to Learn about Marketing, Merchandizing
                  and Concessions at PGA TourneyMarch 8, 2021 University of South Florida students received a behind-the-scenes lesson in marketing
               and hospitality when the PGA Tour last month visited The Concession Golf Club in Manatee
               County for a four-day, nationally televised tournament.
Student Spotlight: Sara Atta's Persistence Pays Off After a Call from Goldman SachsMarch 8, 2021 It has been five years in the making, five years of applying and being unsuccessful.
USF Launches Cybersecurity Major at Sarasota-Manatee Campus - Sarasota MagazineMarch 5, 2021 Course topics include cybersecurity analytics, cybersecurity threat intelligence,
               database management and more.
In-depth: how implicit bias in banking makes homeownership harder for people of color
                     to attain - ABC Action NewsMarch 5, 2021 Anthony Hill is digging deeper to find out how implicit bias is preventing many people
               of color from getting loans and what one local organization is doing to level the
               playing field.
Researchers use neuromarketing tools to assist Baycare Health System, national public
                     health agencies to assess impact of COVID-19 messaging - MirageMarch 3, 2021 An interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of South Florida has pooled
               its expertise and resources in order to help influence the effectiveness of public
               health messaging related to COVID-19.
Novel engineering based on a specific client need – a collaboration story - IMotionsMarch 2, 2021 Rob Hammond had a big problem last March. He and his research collaborator, Claudia
               Parvanta, had a major study for the Florida Department of Health when news of COVID-19
               reached the U.S.
USF researchers use neuromarketing tools to assist Baycare Health System, national
                     public health agencies to assess the impact of COVID-19 messaging - USF NewsMarch 2, 2021 An interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of South Florida has pooled
               its expertise and resources in order to help influence the effectiveness of public
               health messaging related to COVID-19.
The new faces of Florida's MBA professors bring eclectic mix of talent and knowledge - Florida TrendMarch 1, 2021 Moving to Florida hadn’t been an objective for Kong. But his visit to the University
               of South Florida changed that.
Muma College of Business to host free, virtual supply chain summit - The OracleFebruary 28, 2021 Through a virtual summit, the Muma College of Business (COB) will bring together
               several business executives across the state as well as the country to discuss and
               analyze the growing supply chain industry in Florida.
LISTEN: Thousands Sign Up for Free USF Course on Workplace Diversity - WFLAFebruary 28, 2021 More than twenty thousand people have signed up for a seven week business certificate
               program designed to educate business and community leaders on increasing diversity,
               equity and inclusion in the workplace.
Just Getting Started: Sri Sundaram - CatalystFebruary 28, 2021 Dr. Tomalin's guest is Sri Sundaram, dean of the University of South Florida St.
               Petersburg's Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance, and the current chair
               of the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of Commerce.
Re-strategizing Tourism through festivals, food and culture - eTN IndiaFebruary 28, 2021 Even as vaccines are being administered and there is hope for the return of travel
               and tourism post COVID-19, the strategies to build the industry back is a challenge
               in itself.
Restaurant relief grants worth $25 billion could arrive via new stimulus bill - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 27, 2021 Should the bill pass, bars and restaurants would get targeted, debt-free aid. How
               and when, however, are unknown.
Tens of thousands sign up for workplace diversity course - CatalystFebruary 26, 2021 Since it was first announced less than a week ago, the University of South Florida’s
               new workplace diversity certificate program has already enrolled more than 34,000
               participants.
Muma College of Business, Tampa Bay Lightning, Jabil Offer Free Certificate Program
                     on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in the WorkplaceFebruary 24, 2021 Three power players in the Tampa Bay business community have joined together to educate
               business and community leaders on the essential practices and tools designed to increase
               employee diversity and to create a sustainable business model that embraces equity
               and inclusion.
USF, Lightning, Jabil team up to certify businesses for diversity and inclusion - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 24, 2021 Three Tampa Bay powerhouses have teamed up to offer business leaders a chance to learn
               more on fostering equity, diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil launch business certificate program focusing on
                     workplace diversity, equity and inclusion - Florida TrendFebruary 24, 2021 Free seven-week online certificate program will emphasize essential business practices
               and initiatives designed to increase diversity among employees at all levels.
Tampa Bay Lightning, Jabil Inc., Muma COB to offer free online certificate on diversity,
                     equity, inclusion - The OracleFebruary 24, 2021 In partnership with the Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil Inc., the Muma College of Business
               will offer a free certificate program focused on ways to cultivate a workplace that
               embraces diversity, equity and inclusion.
The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil have partnered with the University of South Florida
                     Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program focusing... - Spot on FloridaFebruary 24, 2021 The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil have partnered with the University of South Florida
               Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program focusing
               on diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace.
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil launch business certificate program focusing on
                     diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace - News BreakFebruary 24, 2021 Three power players in the Tampa Bay business community have joined together to educate
               business and community leaders on the essential practices and tools designed to increase
               employee diversity and to create a sustainable business model that embraces equity
               and inclusion.
Lightning, Jabil, USF team up on workplace diversity program - CatalystFebruary 24, 2021 The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil Inc. have partnered with the University of South
               Florida’s Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program
               that will focus on ways organizations can create a more diverse workplace as well
               as address equity issues and foster inclusivity.
Bolts launch certificate program focused on diversity, equity & inclusion - NHL.comFebruary 24, 2021 In conjunction with USF and Jabil, the free seven-week online certificate program
               will emphasize essential business practices & initiatives designed to increase diversity
               among employees at all levels
Biden Admin to Review Chip Supply Chain - Cheddar BusinessFebruary 24, 2021
USF joins national business leaders in co-organizing Florida supply chain event, includes
                     discussion on impacts of COVID-19 vaccine distribution - USF NewsroomFebruary 22, 2021 The University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business is partnering with various
               industry giants to co-organize the 2021 Florida Supply Chain Summit.
Brian Butler, Head of Vistra Communications, Is the Next Conversation with a CEO GuestFebruary 17, 2021 Brian Butler has seen a lot over the course of his lengthy military and corporate
               career. As founder, president and CEO of Vistra Communications and with more than
               three decades of leadership, Butler is constantly facing challenges, but maybe the
               biggest challenge right now is the question of diversity in the workplace.
Wintry weather puts freeze on COVID-19 vaccine supply shipped to Florida - WPTVFebruary 16, 2021 Supply chain disruption should only last 'one or two days,' expert says
Selling with the Bulls, the Intercollegiate Version, Pushes Though the PandemicFebruary 15, 2021 In the face of a pandemic that continues to cripple academic conferences and events,
               the 2021 Intercollegiate Selling with the Bulls competition took place earlier this
               month, with competitors facing off virtually instead of personally.
Vincent Jackson, Former Bucs Wide Receiver, Dead At 38 - WUSFFebruary 15, 2021 The three-time Pro Bowl receiver played for the Bucs from 2012 to 2016, but Jackson
               may be better known for his community work off the field while with the team and after
               his retirement.
Vietnam's advantages in the evolving international supply chain - VNExpressFebruary 15, 2021 A skilled but relatively inexpensive workforce, good infrastructure and a slew of
               free trade agreements position Vietnam as a key supply chain hub, experts say.
Academics Teach The Next Generation Of Advisors To Attain Success - Investor's Business DailyFebruary 12, 2021 At universities across the country, future financial planners learn the basics. Their
               professors teach them what it takes to succeed.
M3 Center for Hospitality Turns to Tech to Support Visiting Scholar ProgramFebruary 11, 2021 The University of South Florida’s School of Hospitality and Tourism Management is
               helping international scholars connect with students to enhance their knowledge and
               career prospects.
World on a Plate, Episode 37: Can Technology Save Hospitality with Dr. Cihan Cobanoglu - WorldChefs PodcastFebruary 10, 2021 In this episode, Ragnar connects with renowned hospitality and tourism technology
               expert, Dr. Cihan Cobanoglua. They dive into the world of technology and ask, in the
               new frontier created by the global pandemic, can technology save hospitality?
Women in sports: Defy impostor syndrome with FAST thinking - Sports Business JournalFebruary 8, 2021 It’s not unusual to work in the sports business for decades and still ask: “Am I
               qualified? Do I deserve this position? Am I good enough?” This mental dialogue is
               unrelenting — and particularly common among women.
Companies spend millions on ads for captive Super Bowl audience - Fox13 Tampa BayFebruary 5, 2021 Companies spent millions of dollars to land a Super Bowl ad, but this year’s commercials
               will likely look and feel a bit different.
A Virtual 2021 Florida Supply Chain Summit Scheduled for March 9February 3, 2021 The significant shocks to the global supply chain during the pandemic opened consumers’
               eyes to the importance of a stable global supply chain.
Little Known Super Bowl Fact: Auditing Takes a Back Seat to a Strong Passing GameFebruary 3, 2021 This week, traffic around Tampa is more aggravating than usual. Hotel rooms are in
               short supply. Reservations at restaurants are a must. Even the drive-thru lanes at
               fast food eateries are backed up.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Graduate Students Intern at Super Bowl
                  LVFebruary 3, 2021 Having the Super Bowl in Tampa is bittersweet. Sweet because the Tampa Bay Buccaneers
               are playing for the championship in their home stadium, bitter because COVID-19 means
               there only will be 25,000 fans in the stands cheering on the team.
School of Information Systems and Management Researchers Rank No. 5 in the WorldFebruary 3, 2021 The researchers in the Muma College of Business’ School of Information Systems and
               Management were ranked No. 5 in the world in 2020 for the number of publications in
               IS journals, according to a survey recently released by the University of Texas at
               Dallas.
People trust black COVID-19 masks more than others. But why? - Fast CompanyFebruary, 3, 2021 If you want someone to feel safe around you, go with a black (or white) mask.
Big name brands opt out of Super Bowl advertising - News Channel 8 WFLAJanuary 27, 2021 Viewers will notice new players in the advertising game for Super Bowl LV.
Muma College of Business Online MBA Program Ranked No. 26 in the NationJanuary 26, 2021 The University of South Florida’s online MBA program ranked No. 26 – No. 19 among
               public universities – on the U.S. News and World Report's annual survey released this
               week. It is the third national ranking achieved for the graduate program in a month.
USF's Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership Offers Executive-Level Training for Women
                     Leaders in Tampa BayJanuary 26, 2021 According to a recent Forbes article “one in four women are considering reducing
               hours or leaving the workforce altogether in the next year due to the pandemic.” Now
               more than ever, companies need to invest in women.
USF online MBA program soars inside top 30 in new U.S. News and World Report rankings - Florida TrendJanuary 26, 2021 The University of South Florida is among the best in the nation for delivering online
               graduate programs, according to new rankings released today by U.S. News and World
               Report (U.S. News).
Yes, customers do like it when waiters and hairdressers wear a mask – especially if
                     it’s black - The ConversationJanuary 25, 2021 Customers perceive a better quality of service, feel less anxious and exhibit more
               trust in businesses when waiters and other service workers wear a mask, according
               to a new study we just submitted for peer review. And we found this to be especially
               true when the mask was black.
Leading Inclusion As A Growth Strategy Minimizes Risk In Times Of Crisis - ForbesJanuary 23, 2021 Being able to lead amidst uncertainty is probably the single most important skill
               we can have today. I can’t remember a time within my own lifetime where there was
               more unpredictability facing us in every aspect of our lives.
Researchers release, discuss regional competitiveness report - CatalystJanuary 18, 2021 On Friday, the Tampa Bay Partnership held its fifth annual State of the Region event,
               an occasion that coincides with the release of a 68-page Regional Competitiveness
               Report compiled from data gathered by the partnership, Community Foundation of Tampa
               Bay, United Way Suncoast and the University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business.
How diverse are Tampa Bay universities' leadership teams and boards? - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 15, 2021 A look at the breakdown of sex and race on local higher education institutions' leadership
               teams and boards.
State of the Region report shows Tampa Bay lags in economic competitiveness, but there's
                     hope for the future - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 15, 2021 Tampa Bay is still standing in the back of the pack when it comes to wages and the
               working labor force, but there are positive indicators as the region heads into 2021.
Good News, Bad News in the Tampa Bay Partnership’s Regional Competitiveness Report
                     and the Center for Analytics and Creativity’s E-Insights ReportJanuary 15, 2021 The Tampa Bay E-Insights Report 2021, compiled from real-time sources such as Google
               searches, Zillow postings and LinkedIn employment connections mined by researchers
               with the Muma College of Business, reveals the attitudes, culture and economic viability
               of the Tampa Bay region in comparison to other municipalities of similar size and
               demographics.
More than 5,700 worldwide attend USF certificate program to help hospitality industry
                     emerge from COVID-19 crisisJanuary 14, 2021 The University of South Florida’s recent certificate program to help hotels, restaurants
               and other hospitality businesses navigate COVID-19 and pivot to the post-pandemic
               environment attracted thousands of hospitality professionals worldwide.
42 MBA Programs With the Highest Percentage of Underrepresented Racial Minorities - Yahoo! NewsJanuary 13, 2021 Based on data collected by U.S. News, here are the 42 schools with the highest percentage
               of domestic full-time students who are underrepresented minorities, meaning that they
               self-identify as either African American, biracial, Hispanic, Native American or Pacific
               Islander.
In the Wake of Civil Unrest in Washington, Financial Experts see Markets Remaining
                  StableJanuary 9, 2021 As the nation watched in shock as an unruly mob smashed windows and occupied the
               Capitol in Washington, 225 miles away Wall Street took in the surreal scene as well
               and the economic impact of the incursion and the response of trading remains largely
               uncertain.
USF Business Professors' Research Productivity Published in Top Journals Among the
                     Top 100January 9, 2021 Researchers with the USF Muma College of Business continued to rank high on a nationwide
               survey of scholarly publications in 24 of the nation’s leading business journals.
Alumni Spotlight: Jonathan EbberhartJanuary 8, 2021 Ebberhart’s first internship (as a freshman) was with a boutique firm, Anchor Wealth
               Management, in his hometown of Sanford, Florida. It was an opportunity for him to
               get real-world exposure early in his education and he believes it was an important
               stepping stone in landing the internship with J.P. Morgan as a junior.
Faculty Spotlight: Daniel BradleyJanuary 8, 2021 A champion of research, Bradley earned his PhD from the University of Kentucky, he
               received the Muma College of Business Research Award in 2013, 2017-19, the USF Outstanding
               Research Faculty Award in 2018, and was named a Fulbright Core recipient in 2018 where
               he did research at ISCTE in Lisbon.
Jane Mason continues to contribute to USF communityJanuary 8, 2021 Jane Mason, CEO of Clarifire, USF alumna, and Chair of the Kate Tiedemann School
               of Business and Finance Dean’s Advisory Board, donated $5,000 towards the Dean’s Advisory
               Board Leadership Award fund.
Real Estate Concentration SpotlightJanuary 8, 2021 Finance students at USF have the opportunity to select one of several concentrations,
               becoming increasingly popular is the concentration in real estate.
This Isn't Your Father's Internship. Virtual Opportunities Available This Fall and
                     SummerJanuary 7, 2021 Not long ago, business college students interned at the office, working shoulder
               to shoulder with professionals, participating in face-to-face meetings, networking
               in person, learning how to work within a team and generally preparing themselves for
               careers that mirror their internships.
Want to Know How the Tampa Bay Region Measures Up? Find out on Jan. 15 at the Annual
                  State of the Region MeetingJanuary 6, 2021 The Tampa Bay E-Insights Report 2021, complied from real-time sources such as Google
               searches, Zillow postings and LinkedIn employment connections, has furthered the understanding
               of how the Tampa Bay region compares to other municipalities of similar size and demographics.
21 predictions for 2021 from Tampa Bay’s business and community leaders - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 4, 2021 We asked experts what’ll happen in the next 12 months in the economy, medicine, education,
               entertainment and more.
No Balance Transfer Fee Credit Cards - WalletHubJanuary 4, 2021 When considering balance transfers, or any credit card offers, people should remember,
               "Caveat Emptor," which is Latin for, "Let the buyer beware!" Credit cards are not
               issued by charities as tools for distributing money -- they are legal debt agreement
               instruments, offered by businesses intent on earning a profit.
USF Offers Online Real Time MS Degree In Business Analytics And Information Systems
                     For Indian Professionals - BW EducationDecember 30, 2021 Applications are now being accepted for the new program.
Back to top
2020
Genetic algorithm discovers sets of programs with affinities to politics - NevadaTodayDecember 22, 2020 New research from the University of Nevada, Reno and the University of South Florida,
               suggests that television viewing data can be used to estimate political and social
               preferences.
Systems that use AI to match medications with patients can reduce prescription costs,
                     FIU Business study reveals - FIU NewsDecember 17, 2020 As a result of rising medication costs, patients often stop following medical treatment
               plans and fail to get better. Without detailed information, medical practitioners
               can do little to help.
Online MBA Program Ranked Among the Top 25 in the NationDecember 15, 2020 The Online MBA program at USF’s Muma College of Business continues to rank among
               the best in the nation, placing among the top 25 on two separate national rankings.
USF Biz Alumni Contribute to Jamaica's Corporate, Nonprofit FutureDecember 15, 2020 Over the course of the past three decades, a handful of USF business alumni have
               become movers and shakers on the island nation of Jamaica, operating at the highest
               levels of finance, development and even nonprofit.
Top solution to begin to close regional inequities? Improve transportation in Tampa
                     Bay - 83degrees MediaDecember 15, 2020 It’s a straightforward notion: Provide lower-income workers with reliable, fast public
               transit and they will be able to access more job opportunities and better pay.
Students Find More Choices in the Wake of ConsolidationDecember 14, 2020 Before July 1, business students on USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus had to make the
               long trek to Tampa to take a course in entrepreneurship. Likewise, students at the
               Muma College of Business’ Tampa campus had to take the ride to Sarasota Manatee to
               find out about risk management and insurance.
Tampa Bay universities land among Princeton Review's best business schools in 2021 - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 14, 2020 Tampa Bay universities have landed among the best business schools in the nation,
               according to the latest Princeton Review report.
Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership's Goal: International RecognitionDecember 11, 2020 Founded in 2006, the Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership has been laser focused
               on providing relevant and impactful instruction for both students and business leaders
               in the outside community.
Three USF Sarasota-Manatee campus professors among world’s top researchers - ABC 7 WWSBDecember 10, 2020 Three professors from the University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee campus – Faizan
               Ali, Thomas Becker and James Unnever – have been included in a database of the top
               160,000 scientists worldwide, placing them among the elite in their fields across
               all disciplines.
University of South Florida Offers Online Real Time MS Degree in Business Analytics
                     and Information Systems for Indian Professionals - India Education DiaryDecember 10, 2020 The University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business will launch an online
               and synchronous STEM-certified Global Master of Science in Business Analytics and
               Information Systems (BAIS) in May 2021.
Tony Kong, Faculty Director of the Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership, Named a Sam
                  and Bonnie Rechter FellowDecember 9, 2020 Tony Kong, faculty director of the Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership on the St.
               Petersburg campus of the Muma College of Business, was recently named a Sam and Bonnie
               Rechter Fellow by the University of Louisville, an inaugural award given to five fellows
               to promote ethical leadership.
Frank G. Daveler, Philanthropist, Entrepreneur, Dead at 102December 9, 2020 Frank G. Daveler, a Southwest Florida entrepreneur and philanthropist whose generosity
               over the past four years has touched the lives of a number of USF students on paths
               to entrepreneurial careers, died last month in Naples.
Student Profile: Timothy Henning Endures Two Years of Amateur Hockey Before Focusing
                  on FinanceDecember 7, 2020 After four internships and two years of playing amateur hockey, Timothy Henning has
               found his groove.
Webinar takes in-depth look at the future of clinical research - Outsourcing PharmaDecember 7, 2020 OSP's free Digital Advances in Clinical Trial webinar (on December
               9) will feature experts discussing recent advancements in the rapidly evolving field.
5 Things Hotels Can Do Now to Increase Consumer Confidence in Travel - Hospitality TechDecember 7, 2020 The impact of the pandemic on every industry is undisputable. Travel and tourism
               are no exception. The pandemic has not only impacted the economics of these industries,
               but it has also changed the behaviors of consumers, most likely forever.
US varsity to offer online MS programme - The HinduDecember 6, 2020 It includes coursework on Data Mining, Database Management, among others
Ray Ferrara’s Gift to Muma College of BusinessDecember 4, 2020 We are excited to announce a new partnership with the Barron’s in Education Program
               from Dow Jones which will provide Muma College of Business students, faculty and staff
               complimentary 24/7 digital content from Barron’s.
Emergency Fund, Why and HowDecember 4, 2020 Life is full of surprises, from a lottery award to a promotion, from a broken arm
               to a car accident. Sometimes we may not have a strong feeling that we are better off
               with the positive change in life.
It Is Time to Review Your Homeowners Insurance CoverageDecember 4, 2020 Many of us hold homeowners insurance to protect ourselves from huge potential financial
               loss due to the damage to our sweet homes, especially if we still have mortgage balance
               outstanding.
USF Offers Online Degree For Working Professionals in IndiaDecember 3, 2020 Working professionals in South Asia have a new opportunity to earn an American business
               degree in business analytics and information systems – in one year and without leaving
               their jobs or the region.
USF students learn the science of beermaking - Herald-TribuneDecember 2, 2020 University of South Florida students in the Chemistry and Microbiology of Beer class
               recently showcased their projects and thanked local brewers and other industry partners
               for supporting the unique program.
It is time to show you CARE! - HospitalityNetDecember 1, 2020 The impact of the pandemic on every industry is undisputable. Travel and tourism
               are no exception.
'Yes, you can deliver that to my house': How the pandemic is giving shoppers an edge
                     over retailers - ABC Action NewsNovember 30, 2020 Cyber Monday brings out deals, steals and scammers
Financial Experts Discuss the Post-Election Financial Market ScenariosNovember 20, 2020 Financial experts participating in a webinar hosted by the University of South Florida
               and Sarasota-based Cumberland Advisors said the improving economy and recent good
               news about potential COVID-19 vaccines point to an upward trend in financial markets
               next year.
University of Tampa, USF rank among top 20 best entrepreneurship programs in U.S. - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 19, 2020 University of South Florida ranked No. 18 on the graduate programs list.
Students Volunteering for and Working at Feeding Tampa Bay Say it's a Rewarding and
                  Fulfilling ExperienceNovember 13, 2020 With the hopes of achieving a hunger-free Tampa Bay by 2025, Feeding Tampa Bay focuses
               on providing food to the hundreds of thousands of food insecure families in the 10-county
               area of West Central Florida.
What a $15 an hour minimum wage accomplishes | Column - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 13, 2020 The academic literature is mixed when it comes to the effects of minimum wage increases
               on employment, but the benefits for the worker are clear, writes a USF professor.
Nandini Agarwal, Former 25 Under 25 Honoree, Wins Top Graduate AwardNovember 12, 2020 Nandini Agarwal, no stranger to awards and recognition for excellence throughout
               her college career, added one more accolade to the trophy case: Outstanding Graduate
               for the fall 2020 semester.
Politics as (Un)usual: How the Presidential Election Could Impact Financial MarketsNovember 9, 2020 The roller-coaster presidential campaign, and still to-be-determined results of the
               election, have many investors concerned about the impact that politics will have on
               the future of financial markets.
USF Will Host Panel on Post-Election Financial Markets - Sarasota MagazineNovember 6, 2020 The event will take place virtually on Nov. 17 from noon-1:30 p.m.
Student Spotlight: Luiza Marques Remote learning from BrazilNovember 5, 2020 Luiza Marques is a finance major and Muma College of Business 25 under 25 student
               from Brazil. When the university turned to remote learning in March she went home
               to continue her studies.
Next Up at Conversation with a CEO: Rogan Donelly, President of Tervis on Nov. 3October 28, 2020 Being the president of Tervis, a leader in the business of beverage containers, Rogan
               Donelly does not let that alone define who he is.
Fall Selling with the Bulls Competition Held on Virtual PlatformOctober 26, 2020 The fall 2020 version of Selling with the Bulls, a popular Muma College of Business
               competition open to all USF students, happened this month, with outside business partners
               serving as mentors and judges and students vying for salesmanship bragging rights.
A chart of unemployment under Trump and Obama tells quite a tale | Column - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 23, 2020 The truth is, neither former President Barack Obama nor President Donald Trump deserve
               much credit for the decline in unemployment that occurred over the last decade until
               the pandemic changed everything.
With Rays in World Series, home team pride soars as stadium decision looms - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 20, 2020 Merch is selling fast for the American League champs. Will it lead to renewed fan
               interest long-term?
Supporting underrepresented entrepreneurs is our best hope for jump-starting the economy - Boston GlobeOctober 20, 2020 Consider this: If US women launched high-growth firms at the same rate as men, we’d
               add 15 million jobs in only two years.
USF to present free online classes to help hospitality professionals with COVID and
                     aftermath - Herald-TribuneOctober 19, 2020 The University of South Florida School of Hospitality and Tourism Management is offering
               a free certificate program to help hotels, restaurants and other hospitality businesses
               navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and prepare for the post-pandemic environment.
3 Accelerators Solving Covid-19’s Cybersecurity Crunch - ForbesOctober 18, 2020 Entrepreneurs and cybercriminals have at least one thing in common: a nose for opportunity.
               With attacks worsening, leaders need the talent and tools to fight back.
Post Pandemic: How Must Colleges And Universities Reinvent Themselves? - ForbesOctober 17, 2020 We’re all being disrupted right now because of the pandemic. But I think it’s fair
               to say that higher education has been forced to change more than anyone else.
School of Hospitality and Tourism Management to Offer Post-Crisis CertificateOctober 16, 2020 The University of South Florida School of Hospitality and Tourism Management is offering
               a free certificate program to help hotels, restaurants and other hospitality businesses
               navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and prepare for the post-pandemic environment.
Business Honors Program to Expand onto USF St. Petersburg CampusOctober 15, 2020 The Business Honors Program at the Muma College of Business is poised to expand onto
               the USF St. Petersburg campus next year, allowing admitted students to live together
               on a floor of a new residence hall.
USF Esports Summit Offers Keynote Speakers, Observations in Virtual EventOctober 15, 2020 Jordan Zietz personifies the trajectory of esports around the globe. He is young,
               adept at video games of all kinds; he has the ability to pivot to new opportunistic
               directions at a moment’s notice.
In the Time of COVID-19: To Refinance or Not to Refinance; Finance Faculty Give AdviceOctober 15, 2020 As COVID-19 continues to blanket the nation for the seventh consecutive month, laid-off
               or furloughed workers struggle to make mortgage payments.
Muma College of Business Researchers Look at Cybersecurity Risk ManagementOctober 15, 2020 As the cybersecurity risks facing publicly held companies advance each day, the way
               those companies provide assurances that they are mitigating that risk may affect how
               willing investors are to invest, according to a recent study conducted by USF Muma
               College of Business accounting researchers.
2020 USF Esports Summit Settles on Speakers, Leaders in the Gaming IndustryOctober 12, 2020 The list of speakers is set for the 2020 USF Esports Summit and it includes leaders
               in an industry that is growing into a multi-billion enterprise that one day may rival
               professional sports.
Alumnus Spotlight: Google Duane Driskell and You'll Find Him at GoogleOctober 12, 2020 Duane Driskell, an alumnus of the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, just started
               a job of a lifetime, working as a corporate finance associate at Google.
Tampa Bay Inno Under 25 Lists USF Students with Some Bright IdeasOctober 9, 2020 Innovation knows no age or background. That much is true based on the list of entrepreneurs
               named in Tampa Bay Inno’s Under 25 list, ranging in age to seasoned graduate students
               to a 7-year-old whose idea focused on saving the oceans.
Alumni/Students, now Employees/Interns with the Tampa Bay Lightning, Savoring the
                  Stanley CupOctober 9, 2020 Aside from the Stanley Cup skaters on the ice, the Tampa Bay Lightning organization
               is well represented by interns and alumni of USF.
Student Spotlight: PhD student, Kirill Pervun, presents his research on the relationship
                     between athletics and business successOctober 6, 2020  PhD in finance student Kirill Pervun has presented his paper, Athlete CEOs and Corporate Outcomes, at a number of finance conferences in the 2019-2020. 
Muma College of Business Professor Researches "Face-Threat Sensitivity" Dynamics in
                  NegotiationsSeptember 30, 2020 New research by a Muma College of Business professor disputes long-held beliefs about
               the subtleties imbedded in the fine art of negotiation.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Enters National Collaborative to Examine
                  Gender Inequality in SportsSeptember 30, 2020 The USF Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program is collaborating with sports
               and entertainment-marketing agency Wasserman’s think tank, The Collective, in an ambitious
               effort to address gender parity and diversity.
Area’s biggest cyber companies back Tampa Bay Wave’s new accelerator - CatalystSeptember 28, 2020 Tampa Bay Wave wants to make the Tampa-St. Petersburg area a hub for cybersecurity
               talent and innovation.
After selling out almost instantly, USF launches another round of coronavirus leadership
                     course - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 21, 2020 "Our community is hungry for whatever it takes for a safe and smooth return to the
               new norm."
USF Muma business college plans second leadership course - CatalystSeptember 19, 2020 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business will offer a second session
               of its "Post-Crisis Leadership" certificate program this fall.
Luke Richardson, Accounting Instructor, Explains the Pluses and Minuses of Payroll
                  DeferralSeptember 18, 2020 The presidential executive order to implement a deferral of federal payroll tax for
               American workers intends to stimulate an economy mired in the COVID-19 crisis.
Muma College of Business Offers Second “Post-Crisis Leadership” Certificate Program,
                     Beginning in OctoberSeptember 17, 2020 The immense interest and popularity of the “Post-Crisis Leadership” certificate program,
               held over the summer, has prompted the Muma College of Business to offer the course
               again, beginning on Oct. 1.
USF Wearable Devices Study Aims To Predict When COVID-19 Symptoms Will Worsen - WUSF NewsSeptember 17, 2020 Researchers in several University of South Florida departments – including medicine,
               nursing and business – are recruiting volunteers from Tampa General Hospital’s COVID-19
               clinic for a new wearable devices study to predict when symptoms will worsen.
Muma College of Business Risk Management and Insurance Program is One of Just Two
                     Offered by Florida Public UniversitiesSeptember 16, 2020 The Muma College of Business’ School of Risk Management and Insurance (RMI) is providing
               students with new career opportunities while responding to the pressing needs of local
               employers.
USF Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Serves Up its USF Esports Summit
                  on Virtual StageSeptember 16, 2020 Rivaling professional sports on the field and in arenas, esports is catching on across
               the nation and the world.
The Bishop Center for Ethical Leadership reflects on the passing of Bill HellerSeptember 15, 2020 Heller served as the director of the center during its formative years and helped
               guide its vision on ethical leadership.
Marketer of the Year awards celebrate creativity and innovation - CatalystSeptember 12, 2020 Awards also were given out for educator of the year, which went to Dr. Paul J. Solomon
               at USF Muma College of Business and volunteer of the year, which went to Jodi Ciccarello.
Bill Heller, former USF St. Pete leader and lawmaker, dies - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 12, 2020 University announces his death in an email sent to school employees.
Muma College of Business Students Take First, Third places in the Florida Blue Health
                  Innovation ChallengeSeptember 10, 2020 Two of the top three winners of the annual Florida Blue Health Innovation Challenge
               were students from the Muma College of Business, including the overall winner of the
               competition.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Achieves Top 5 Ranking in the Nation;
                  No. 6 in the WorldSeptember 10, 2020 The USF Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program continues to rank among the
               best in the world, according to SportBusiness International, which published its rankings
               this week.
USF selects 23 research projects for funding in anti-racism effort - MirageSeptember 10, 2020 A University of South Florida research task force working to address racial issues
               and attitudes on a local, national and global scale has selected 23 projects exploring
               a wide range of issues in systemic inequality, economic and health disparities, Black
               history and contemporary challenges for funding.
USF announces anti-racism projects, including two in Sarasota - Herald-TribuneSeptember 10, 2020 The University of South Florida has announced $500,000 worth of grants to fund 23
               research projects aimed at reducing racism, including two projects that will be conducted
               at USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus.
How Businesses in Florida are Handling the COVID-19 Pandemic, including Securing Loans
                     and Business Credit - CardRates.comSeptember 8, 2020 When the COVID-19 pandemic began spreading across Florida, schools and businesses
               in the state — like so many around the country — were quick to close their doors to
               help prevent further spread of the virus.
To Go Out or Not to Go Out ... Marketing Professor Researches the Impact COVID-19
                  has on Restaurants in the Tampa Bay AreaSeptember 4, 2020 Restaurants took a hard hit during the COVID-19 crisis. They shut down months ago,
               and with no revenue coming in, many were unable to keep staff.
How America Became Obsessed With ‘Food Lube’ - Men'sHealthSeptember 3, 2020 We’ve become a nation that relies on dips, sauces, and dressings to make everything
               taste better—or at least bolder. Where exactly does that end?
Halloween candy still hitting shelves early, despite pandemic - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 29, 2020 Sweet sales have increased slightly as shoppers seek to indulge
The economy? Adequate isn’t ’spectacular’ | Column - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 29, 2020 Comparing the past three years with the three years that came before is instructive,
               writes a USF professor.
Keys to growing a small business in a pandemic: Research and marketing - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 27, 2020 Carl Hadden, of USF’s small business development center, has seen entrepreneurs struggle
               in 2020, but also survive and expand. Here’s how.
Religious tourism has been hit hard in the pandemic as sites close and pilgrimages
                     are put on hold - The ConversationAugust 27, 2020 Religious tourism is among the oldest forms of planned travel and to this day remains
               a huge industry.
It's time to talk about holiday shopping in Sarasota-Manatee. Yes, really - Herald-TribuneAugust 25, 2020 Normally, I wouldn’t come here with a hot take about what holiday shopping is going
               to look like until at least next month.
The workforce will return to a sense of normalcy - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 24, 2020 More people will return to an office than you might guess, surmises a USF professor.
Cihan Cobanoglu, Director of the M3 Center for Hospitality Technology and Innovation
                     on the Sarasota-Manatee Campus, Receives Prestigious AwardAugust 19, 2020 University of South Florida Muma College of Business Professor Cihan Cobanoglu is
               the recipient of the prestigious Stevenson W. Fletcher Achievement Award for innovative
               contributions to hospitality and tourism research.
Remote Learning: Are You Really Engaged? Biz Researchers Examine 'Social Presence'
                  IssuesAugust 19, 2020 Online learning is not new, but it now is nearly all encompassing as the pandemic
               grips the nation in its fifth month and colleges and universities must offer more
               courses online this fall semester, when nearly a third of all students are taking
               online courses.
Faculty Spotlight: Sharon Segrest, Management Professor, Helps Refugees from War-Torn
                     Countries AssimilateAugust 14, 2020 When Sharon Segrest isn’t teaching Muma College of Business students the finer points
               of management or earning awards for her research, she helps refugees from the Middle
               East and Africa assimilate into cultures of whatever country that welcomes them, land
               well-paying jobs and live without the threat of suicide bombs and IEDs.
New Campus Dean Teaches Entrepreneurship to State PrisonersAugust 13, 2020 Jean Kabongo, the new Muma College of Business campus dean at the USF Sarasota-Manatee
               campus, is busier than ever, but he still makes time for a program close to his heart,
               the entrepreneurship course at the Hardee Correctional Institution.
Is it a Seller's Market or a Buyer's Market in Real Estate? Muma College of Business
                  Faculty, Supporters in the Business Give AdviceAugust 13, 2020 A scarcity of available houses, low interest rates and newly developed virtual ways
               to tour and purchase homes are among the reasons the real estate market has withstood
               the onslaught of the COVID-19 crisis over the past few months, according to faculty
               at the Muma College of Business and outside real estate professionals.
Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management and Sustainability Begins Master's
                  ProgramAugust 13, 2020 The Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management and Sustainability at the USF
               Muma College of Business is launching a new master’s degree program in supply chain
               management this fall.
On-Boarding in a Virtual Working Environment - SOF-ONEAugust 10, 2020 On-boarding can be a stressful and overwhelming process in any setting, so as many
               people are now maneuvering in a virtual space, we need to carefully and intentionally
               plan out onboarding to ensure new employees feel welcomed and connected.
USF researchers aim to predict when coronavirus cases go bad - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 10, 2020 Using data from wearable devices, they hope to learn if the body sends clues before
               symptoms get worse.
Castor names members of her new economic advisory committee - Tampa Bay Business JournalAugust 10, 2020 Tampa Mayor Jane Castor announced the members that will make up her Economic Advisory
               Team, which plans to help guide the Transforming Tampa’s Tomorrow program.
Tyler Crutchfield Graduates with a Future Set in Accounting; It Didn’t Start Out that
                  WayAugust 10, 2020 First-generation college student Tyler Crutchfield graduated this weekend from the
               USF Muma College of Business, earning a master’s degree in accounting.
Getting Their Diplomas this Month, Sarah Rodhouse and Hayley Dwy Have Set Themselves
                  ApartAugust 10, 2020 Of all the USF business graduates who walked across the virtual stage this weekend,
               two stand out.
Tracking cell phone movement is helping researchers predict COVID cases, hospitalizations - WTSP 10 Tampa BayAugust 5, 2020 USF researchers say studying the number of places people go and how many other people
               are there has produced a strong correlation with COVID-19 hospitalizations.
USF School Of Hospitality And Tourism Management Receives Accreditation - CBS Tampa BayAugust 2, 2020 Dean of the Muma College of Business: “This valued recognition confirms that the
               programs offered through the school are innovative, relevant and result in graduates
               landing high-paying positions in this dynamic industry.”
Viral movement: Team led by business professor tracks path of disease - Business ObserverJuly 31, 2020 Matthew Mullarkey’s Project ASPeCT harnesses the power of Big Data to predict spikes
               in COVID-19 cases.
USF hospitality program recognized - Herald-TribuneJuly 31, 2020 The School of Hospitality and Tourism Management at the University of South Florida,
               which is based at USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus, received official accreditation earlier
               this month from one of the nation’s top bodies overseeing hospitality programs.
Uber Eats pilots online ordering service for restaurants - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 31, 2020 The program will be commission free through the end of 2020
Delivery service goPuff opens another Tampa delivery warehouse - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 31, 2020 The groceries to-go app has seen increased business during the pandemic
Solutions expert - UIC | College of Applied Health SciencesJuly 30, 2020 “Technology should translate to better patient care,” insists Raja Talati ’14 MS
               HI—especially as the world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Impactful Research by a Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Professor Aims to Change
                  the Culture of High School HockeyJuly 27, 2020 A new study by University of South Florida researchers found that while players and
               parents alike agree about the importance of good sportsmanship in youth hockey programs,
               the culture change many hoped would accompany such awareness programs has not yet
               occurred.
More women are interested in cybersecurity, a new report says. What could that mean
                     for Tampa Bay's talent pool? - Tampa Bay Business JournalsJuly 23, 2020 A cybersecurity workforce study indicates women not only become interested in the
               field earlier than their male counterparts, but also have intentions to have a lengthy
               career in the field.
New Data Pinpoints Coronavirus Spread In Bay Area - Bay New 9July 23, 2020 USF Researchers released months of raw data on how the behavior of Tampa Bay residents
               led to the spread of COVID-19.
Trump’s ban on foreign work visas may have longterm effects - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 23, 2020 While short-term effects will likely be minimal, any extension could pose problems.
USF researcher: Reopening schools could increase Covid-19 hospital admissions - CatalystJuly 23, 2020 The principal investigator in a study that used cell phone data to track the spread
               of Covid-19 is warning that reopening schools in the Tampa-St. Petersburg area could
               lead to increased Covid-19 cases at already-strained area hospitals.
USF Appoints Business Campus Dean - ABC 7 NewsJuly 23, 2020 University of South Florida's Sarasota Campus manatee name and the dean for the business
USF study shows a correlation between mobility and increase in Covid hospitalizations - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 22, 2020 USF researchers say there's a strong correlation between the number of coronavirus-related
               hospital admissions and how often and far Tampa Bay residents travel.
University names campus dean for business school - Business ObserverJuly 21, 2020 Campus dean positions were established as part of the consolidation of the three
               USF campuses that took effect on July 1.
Toilet paper’s back, but these items have become hard to find - bizwomenJuly 20, 2020 Demand for outdoor recreation equipment and backyard improvements remains high.
Retailers say they’re stocked for hurricane season, despite pandemic shortfalls - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 20, 2020 Shoppers may see higher prices to cover the cost of storing extra inventory.
Sports Fans Remain Engaged with Pro Athletes, in Spite of COVID-19 ShutdownsJuly 17, 2020 The stadiums and arenas are dark. What should be a time of exuberance for the NBA
               and the NHL is silent and MLB’s home stretch is stalled.
We need a national dashboard to track coronavirus | Column - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 17, 2020 We need standardized ways of comparing what's going from state to state and across
               America, writes a USF professor.
Helping Florida's Small Businesses Survive The Pandemic - WUSFJuly 17, 2020 Eileen Rodriguez is regional director of the Florida Small Business Development Center
               at the Muma College of Business at the University of South Florida. She said the coronavirus
               pandemic has hurt nearly every enterprise.
Hey Tampa Bay, where’s my Fresca? - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 16, 2020 Toilet paper and hand sanitizer have crept back onto shelves, but other items we
               want remain mysteriously scarce
USF's Muma College of Business names professor its new Sarasota-Manatee dean - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 16, 2020 He has served at USF for 10 years, most recently as a professor of strategic management
               and entrepreneurship.
Jean Kabongo appointed USF Muma College of Business campus dean at Sarasota-Manatee
                     campusJuly 16, 2020 Jean D. Kabongo has been named the USF Sarasota-Manatee campus dean for the USF Muma
               College of Business. Kabongo, professor of strategic management and entrepreneurship,
               joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 2010.
USF Muma College of Business receives $5 million gift - Tampa Bay NewspapersJuly 16, 2020 The University of South Florida’s USF Foundation recently received a $5 million gift
               from alumna and longtime donor, Lynn Pippenger of Largo.
Researchers see fewer travelers to densely-populated areas over July 4th weekend - Fox 13July 15, 2020 Leading up to the Fourth of July weekend, there was plenty of concern about the potential
               for travel and large gatherings to cause COVID-19 to spread.
M3 Center at USF Sarasota-Manatee campus makes global impact on hospitality and tourism
                     industry, academiaJuly 14, 2020 Tampa businessman John McKibbon made one key request in 2013 when he endowed the
               M3 Center for Hospitality Technology and Innovation at the University of South Florida
               Sarasota-Manatee campus.
Florida SBDC at USF Expands Business Training, Education With U.S. SBA CARES Act GrantJuly 13, 2020 The Florida SBDC at University of South Florida is expanding its training and education
               services for small businesses through the use of a $1.3M U.S. Small Business Administration
               CARES Act grant.
New Supply Chain Innovation Virtual Lab LaunchesJuly 10, 2020 A new lab at the University of South Florida will bring industry and academic supply
               chain management experts together in a “living lab” to tackle some of the industry’s
               biggest challenges – particularly as it relates to the ongoing transformation to digital
               supply chains and efforts to design networks that can help companies be more competitive
               in a global marketplace.
USF St. Petersburg MBA Grad, a Medical Doctor in the Reserves, Runs Toward the Pandemic
                     Fire in NYCJuly 10, 2020 The battleground for U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. Raja Talati over the past couple of
               months wasn’t the mountains of Afghanistan or the deserts of Iraq, but the hallways
               and intensive care units of Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx.
Project ASPeCT - State of the RegionJuly 9, 2020 What ASPeCT is finding is a direct correlation – with a 21-day delay – between the
               increased or decreased movement of the region’s residents, and the subsequent number
               of hospitalizations due to the virus.
Alumna donates $5 million to college of business for creation of endowed deanship - The OracleJuly 8, 2020 The Muma College of Business will create an endowed deanship as a result of a $5
               million gift from alumna and longtime donor Lynn Pippenger.
USF Muma College of Business receives $5 million gift from longtime donor Lynn PippengerJuly 7, 2020 The University of South Florida today announced the USF Foundation has received a
               $5 million gift from alumna and longtime donor, Lynn Pippenger. This generous gift
               will create an endowed deanship in the Muma College of Business, which will support
               the dean’s strategic direction for the college.
USF Muma College of Business receives $5 million donation - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 7, 2020 Lynn Pippenger, the former Raymond James executive, adds another in a series of gifts
               to the university's business programs.
USF Muma College of Business receives $5 million donation - CatalystJuly 7, 2020 The USF Foundation has received a $5 million gift from alumna and longtime donor
               Lynn Pippenger. The gift will create an endowed deanship in the Muma College of Business.
USF Foundation receives $5M for College of Business from longtime donor - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 7, 2020 The donation is specifically slated to create an endowed deanship within the school's
               Muma College of Business.
“Post-Crisis Leadership” Certificate Holders Poised to Bring Back the EconomyJuly 6, 2020 Fresh from graduating from a certification program at USF’s Muma College of Business,
               more than 6,000 participants are poised to lead their corporations, small businesses,
               non-profits and entrepreneurships into a market emerging from the COVID-19 crisis.
USF Sarasota-Manatee officially merges with campuses in Tampa and St. Petersburg - Bradenton HeraldJuly 2, 2020 USF Sarasota-Manatee began its transformation on Wednesday, when it officially merged
               with the USF campuses in Tampa and St. Petersburg.
What to know about the July 15 tax deadline - WTSPJuly 1, 2020 The IRS pushed back the deadline from mid-April to mid-July.
New unemployment seeker numbers growing as old DEO issues remain unsolved - News Channel 8July 1, 2020 As COVID-19 cases in Florida continue to spike, the number of first-time unemployment
               claims in Florida is creeping up as well after previously leveling off in June.
July 1 is an Historic Day for USF and the Muma College of BusinessJuly 1, 2020 It isn’t a holiday, it isn’t a birthday or anniversary. But it is an important date.
               Perhaps among the most important dates in the history of the University of South Florida
               and the Muma College of Business.
USF researchers working to find early warnings for severe COVID-19 illness - ABC Action NewsJune 24, 2020 Researchers at the University of South Florida are working to identify the physiological
               response to COVID-19, in hopes of developing an early warning system for patients
               who may be at risk for severe illness.
3 Ways to Increase Your Emotional Intelligence - Psychology TodayJune 24, 2020 Reduce stress at work and home.
USF’s expansion of hospitality program across the region is expected to boost local
                     workforce - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 23, 2020 Mass layoffs and furloughs have been sweeping the hospitality industry due to the
               coronavirus pandemic, but one local hospitality executive said it is further proof
               the region needs more talent than ever when the industry bounces back.
Movement of mobile devices correlates with spread of COVID-19, scientists say - Fox 13June 23, 2020 You might not realize it but your cell phone and other mobile devices could be helping
               government leaders and medical experts plot the next steps in fighting COVID-19.
Tampa Bay’s esports community looks to take advantage of increased interest during
                     coronavirus pandemic - Tampa Bay Business JournalsJune 23, 2020 As traditional sports continue to work their way through various return-to-play plans,
               there is one sport that has flourished during the pandemic. Esports.
Trump’s ban on foreign work visas may have longterm effects - Tampa Bay TimesJune 23, 2020 While short-term effects will likely be minimal, any extension could pose problems.
Can Wearable Tech Help Detect COVID-19 Progression? - Healthcare InnovationJune 17, 2020 A team of researchers will monitor the physiological conditions of more than 100
               study participants
Why do some people with COVID-19 get really sick but not others? Wearable sensors
                     might answer that. - 10 Tampa BayJune 16, 2020 Researchers at the University of South Florida are monitoring skin temperature and
               other physiological patterns of 150 COVID-19 patients.
Philanthropists Tiedemann, Cotton give $1 million to USF business school - Tampa Bay TimesJune 15, 2020 The gift will fund a professorship in finance on the university’s St. Petersburg
               campus.
Developing a Wearable Device to Detect COVID-19 Progression in At-Risk Patients - Irish Tech NewsJune 15, 2020 A new study from researchers at the University of South Florida is shedding light
               on the human body’s physiological response to COVID-19, insight scientists say could
               help them develop an early warning system for those most at risk of severe infection.
Upskilling transforms Jabil employees into data scientists - CIOJune 11, 2020 The global manufacturing services provider struggled to find data scientists to leverage
               its data, so it developed them internally with its Citizen Data Science program.
University of Tampa to launch leadership course for the 'new normal' post-coronavirus
                     world - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 8, 2020 It's the latest in several efforts to educate the business community on leadership
               in a post-coronavirus world.
Diversity in the workplace includes elevating minorities into leadership roles - Fox13June 5, 2020 Big-name corporations nationwide are sharing messages of solidarity, but many communities
               are calling on companies to practice what they preach and make the effort to include
               diverse voices in the boardroom.
As clothing stores reopen, retailers face excess inventory - Tampa Bay TimesJune 5, 2020 Supply chain struggles, out-of-season clothing bring discounts
'Post-Crisis Leadership' Certificate Program Draws 8,000 Participants from 80 CountriesJune 5, 2020 As a major section of the workforce is working remotely – or laid off – because of
               the COVID-19 crisis, thousands took the opportunity to better themselves through an
               online certificate program offered by the Muma College of Business. The “Post-Crisis
               Leadership” certificate could not have been timelier as businesses big and small begin
               to emerge from under the lockdown imposed to stem the spread of the deadly virus.
Local Businesses Hit by COVID-19, Smacked by Riots Have Some RecoursesJune 5, 2020 On the verge of emerging from the COVID-19-caused lockdown in which businesses large
               and small were forced to shut their doors and take a massive revenue hit, some near
               USF were brutally victimized by looters and vandals during the civil unrest that swept
               through Tampa over the last weekend of May.
ISDS Professors Land Rare National Science Foundation GrantJune 4, 2020 An artificial intelligence-based software designed to help PhD students formulate
               their paths through the rigorous academic programs and subsequent careers is being
               designed by a group of USF faculty and alumni, including three from the Muma College
               of Business’ Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department.
Some Students Able to Find Unique Summer Internships in the COVID-19 WastelandJune 2, 2020 When COVID-19 came to town, it ended public gatherings, face-to-face classroom experiences
               and made most traditional internship opportunities more difficult to find.
University of South Florida officiates esports program - Esports InsiderJune 2, 2020 The University of South Florida (USF) has launched its esports program across the
               university’s three campuses to allow students to connect and compete.
COVID-19 has likely quickened the end of malls as we knew them - Tampa Bay TimesMay 28, 2020 International Plaza grew into a shopping and dining destination even as suburban
               malls withered in competition with Amazon.
Silver linings and sobering statistics emerge in Tampa Bay Partnership State of the
                     Region - CatalystMay 28, 2020 Record high unemployment, declines in homes sales and a murky prognosis for air travel
               are among the impacts the Tampa Bay region has felt from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Accounting Circle's CPE Conference Takes Place on a Virtual Format; Nearly 500 'Tune
                  In'May 27, 2020 In normal times, the Oval Theater on the second floor of the USF Marshall Student
               Center would have been filled with accountants, many with laptops or legal pads on
               their laps, maybe a bagel or Danish in one hand, listening to experts giving them
               the latest in federal tax updates and whatever else is new in the accounting industry.
Remote Without Control - Sports Business DailyMay 25, 2020 The class of 2020 never thought the school year would end like this. Virtual classes,
               and graduation. Important moments lost to a pandemic. And opportunities to be part
               of a solution in sports.
Local survey shows Tampa Bay residents aren’t ready to resume normal activities - Tampa Bay TimesMay 22, 2020 Despite the lifting of state and local stay-at-home orders, bay area residents are
               still reluctant to emerge from quarantine to conduct pre-pandemic activities, according
               to the most recent survey by a group of Tampa Bay area business boosters.
USF’s Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Continues to Innovate Despite
                     COVID-19 ChallengesMay 20, 2020 Despite the ever-growing challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic presents to higher
               education, the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program continues to innovate,
               kicking off a new podcast partnership with “Life in the Front Office.”
Nicholas Morris, Third-Year Finance Major, Named Daveler ScholarMay 19, 2020 Nicholas Morris, a third-year finance major in the Muma College of Business with
               a minor in entrepreneurial studies and also a student of the Judy Genshaft Honors
               College, was selected as a Daveler Scholar, one of five in Florida and the only USF
               student to achieve the honor.
Scott Bayus, From Developing Rides at Universal to Running his own Engineering CompanyMay 19, 2020 With the business knowledge he picked up while earning his Executive MBA at the Muma
               College of Business, along with the engineering skills he learned while developing
               rides at Universal Orlando Resort, Scott Bayus’ next career step is clear: starting
               his own engineering firm. Bayus aims to open PSB Engineers, based in Orlando, focusing
               on projects there as well as in the Tampa Bay area.
Muma College of Business offers 8,000 participants free certificate program - The OracleMay 18, 2020 In a time of apprehension and ambiguity for many individuals, businesses and institutions,
               the Muma College of Business has created and offered a course to earn a collegiate-level
               certificate — and at no cost.
Survival of the skilled - India TodayMay 15, 2020 Add new skills to your portfolio to stay relevant in the changing job market
USF's Muma College of Business launches coronavirus leadership course - Tampa Bay Business JournalMay 15, 2020 After a 40-minute sell out, USF has over 8,000 participants in the certification
               course.
How to prepare for your financial future during the pandemic - News Channel 8May 13, 2020 While some jobs are continuing during the coronavirus pandemic, experts say now is
               the time to create a financial plan, just in case the worst happens in the future.
Tampa Bay colleges see entrepreneurship interest spike during COVID-19 crisis - ABC Action NewsMay 12, 2020 As Florida’s economy begins to rebound, local education leaders are tracking new
               opportunities for people looking to launch a new product or service.
Supply Chain Expert Talks About Lessons Learned in the COVID-19 CrisisMay 11, 2020 One previously obscure field that COVID-19 put a spotlight on is supply chain management.
               Most consumers probably had never given a second thought about the complex method
               that gets products and services from producer to customer.
Florida Matters: The Future of Tampa International Airport - And Small Businesses - WUSFMay 8, 2020 When almost everybody is staying at home, that obviously doesn't bode well for the
               state's tourism industry.
Hospitalizations from long-term care facilities jump in Hillsborough - Tampa Bay TimesMay 7, 2020 Mayor Jane Castor said she is alarmed at the rise in cases in those facilities.
Latest On Coronavirus: Florida Cases Grow To 38,000, Real-Time Pinellas Beach Updates,
                     And More - WUSFMay 7, 2020 WUSF will be providing the latest news and information on coronavirus in Tampa Bay
               and across the state.
Supply chains stressed, but are run by 'incredible foragers,’ USF expert says - Tampa Bay TimesMay 7, 2020 Talking supply and demand, meat and toilet paper, with Donna Davis, University of
               South Florida professor of marketing and supply chain management.
Project ASPeCT - a collaboration between the County, TGH and USF to re-open the Region
                     safely - Emergency Policy Group, Hillsborough CountyMay 7, 2020 
Students Come up with Ways to Reduce Waste for Bottling Giant Coca-ColaMay 6, 2020 A competition to come up with ideas to help Coca-Cola reach its goal of being 100
               percent recyclable by 2030 has paid off for some USF students who took home cash prizes
               and the chance of having their ideas used by the soft drink giant in this ambitious
               project.
Muma College of Business to Offer Free Certificate Program in 'Post-Crisis Leadership'May 6, 2020 The world of business is largely locked down right now to stem the spread of COVID-19.
               Small businesses along with larger corporations are eager to jump back into the game
               and get revenues moving again.
Supply chain disruptions are a "learning experience" for many manufacturers - PlantServicesMay 6, 2020 Because nearly every industry in the country has been touched in some way by the
               coronavirus, the crisis doubles as a perfect opportunity for manufacturers to think
               creatively about how and where to create their products and source their materials,
               Seckin Ozkul, a supply chain management expert at the University of South Florida,
               told Business Insider.
Minority-owned small businesses disproportionately affected by coronavirus in Tampa
                     Bay - Florida PoliticsMay 6, 2020 Data shows again that minority-owned businesses and those in low-income areas in
               the Tampa Bay region are struggling significantly more than those in highly educated
               areas or owned by white counterparts.
A supply chain expert breaks down how US companies can emerge from the pandemic 'better
                     on the other side' - Business InsiderMay 6, 2020 Americans adjusting to the coronavirus pandemic and the pivot to stay-home life have
               struggled for months with major shortages of key products, including everything from
               vital medical equipment and grocery items, to cleaning supplies and Nintendo Switches.
Florida Matters: The (Maybe Not) Dismal Short-Term Future Of Tampa Bay Business - WUSFMay 6, 2020 As we transition back to normal, Florida Matters looked for some analysis on the
               unique challenges Tampa Bay businesses, non-profits and the economy will be facing
               as we transition from stay-at-home orders to heading back to work again.
Uncomfortable Participating in Vitural Meetings? Here Is Some AdviceMay 4, 2020 By now most people who are called upon to work remotely in this COVID-19 outbreak
               have learned the basics of how to accomplish the needed tasks while sitting at a laptop
               on the kitchen table or on the desk in a home office that up until March may have
               been seldomly used.
Smart move or risky gamble? Derby Lane poker room set to reopen - News Channel 8May 3, 2020 A Tampa Bay poker room set to open up next week could be one of the first that reopens
               in the country.
Latest On Coronavirus: Increase of 1,000 Florida Cases, Reopening State Parks A 'Low
                     Risk', And More - WUSFMay 1, 2020 WUSF will be providing the latest news and information on coronavirus in Tampa Bay
               and across the state. Here are the latest developments:
Lisa Krouse works to build on FCCI’s caring culture, and to elevate the business community - Tampa Bay Business JournalMay 1, 2020 FCCI said it is closely monitoring the coronavirus pandemic and adapting operations
               and business strategies.
Alumnus Spotlight: Garrett Walker, Class of '18 and Giving Back with his own ScholarshipApril 30, 2020 With two bachelor’s degrees and a few years of experience, Garrett Walker is already
               making his mark in the world of wealth management. Now, he is ready to make an impact
               on the lives of Business Bulls with his very own scholarship.
Tough Questions For Businesses That Want To Reopen - WUSFApril 30, 2020 Under phase one of the plan announced Wednesday by Governor Ron DeSantis, a number
               of businesses in Florida will be allowed to reopen Monday. But one analyst says there
               are still lots of unknowns.
ABC7 News at 7 Roundtable Discussion - ABC 7 NewsApril 30, 2020
Tampa Bay Partnership finds slightly better employment outlook in region than Florida - Florida PoliticsApril 29, 2020 The Tampa Bay Partnership estimates the Tampa Bay region is faring slightly better
               than other regions and the state as a whole in terms of unemployment stemming from
               the novel coronavirus pandemic.
Florida SBDC at USF Continues to Assist Businesses Affected by Coronavirus PandemicApril 28, 2020 Although the source of funding for the Florida Small Business Emergency Bridge Loan
               program has dried up, consultants with the Florida Small Business Development Center
               at USF continue to advise business owners about alternative ways to stay afloat during
               the COVID-19 outbreak and shutdown.
There will be a glut of toilet paper after the coronavirus panic buying subsides,
                     a supply-chain expert says - Business InsiderApril 28, 2020 Toilet paper has been slowly creeping back onto store shelves across
               the US, but it will most likely experience a major glut once consumers stop panic
               buying and stockpiling, a supply-chain expert said.
Is 'WFH' the New Normal? - 10 NewsApril 28, 2020
How Companies Can Make the Most from Failure - BizEdApril 27, 2020 Many experts offer this advice to organizations that want to encourage greater innovation:
               Create cultures where employees are not afraid to fail.
Accounting Student Organization Continues its Work in Spite of COVID-19April 27, 2020 Like classes, student organizations have had no choice but to move to all kinds of
               different technology in order to continue meeting and hosting virtual events.
Muma College of Business Researcher, Student Devise App that Allows Hurricane Evacuees
                     to Register for Shelter SpaceApril 27, 2020 Just as the COVID-19 curve is expected to flatten out in Florida, the
               2020 hurricane season begins.
Stocks of hand sanitizer, Lysol and Clorox wipes won't return to normal until AUGUST,
                     supply chain experts predict - Daily MailApril 27, 2020 Cleaning products and hand sanitizers will not be fully stocked at stores and online
               retailers for several more months supply chain experts have said.
50 Million Travel Industry Jobs May Be Lost, 50 Percent Of Travel Cut — Due To Coronavirus - ForbesApril 26, 2020 Tourism has been a tireless, growing economic engine, an $8 trillion industry based
               on a rosy future whatever the world’s setbacks. And it has surmounted challenges in
               the past, such as after 9/11 when it shrank by 31.6%.
Student Spotlight: Juliana Dunlap, Mentoree and MentorApril 24, 2020 From the moment she stepped onto the University of South Florida campus, Juliana
               Dunlap knew this was her home for the next four years of her life.
Survey finds Tampa Bay residents cautiously optimistic on coronavirus future - Florida PoliticsApril 24, 2020 A scientific poll release Friday shows Tampa Bay area residents are growing more
               optimistic about a post-coronavirus future, but remain cautious about reopening the
               local economy.
Muma College of Business Grad Students/Health Care Professionals Juggle Front Line
                     Duties with Academic ResponsibilitiesApril 23, 2020 Professionals in the health care industry are the infantry in this war against COVID-19.
               Emergency room doctors, ICU nurses and respiratory therapists all put their lives
               on the line to treat those infected and there appears to be no immediate end in sight.
Tracking COVID-19 - Bay News 9April 23, 2020 Balaji Padmanabhan, Director, USF's Center for Analytics and Creativity "It's hard
               to predict long term. Searches don't tell us in the long term what will happen, but
               in the short term, it's 100 percent shown us that it's very serious. So we look to
               monitor these to see when we're likely to see recovery."
Business Researchers Examine Real-Time Data in Tampa Bay COVID-19 EconomyApril 22, 2020 Online searches for fancy downtown restaurants have dropped to nearly zero while
               inquiries about Vitamin C, immunity boosters – and treadmills – have skyrocketed over
               the past month.
USF Analysts Collecting Internet Search Data to Track Changes to Tampa Bay's Economy
                     in Light of COVID-19 - Florida TrendApril 22, 2020 Analysts at the University of South Florida are closely monitoring the economic implications
               of COVID-19.
USF, Tampa Bay Partnership release early data detailing the economic impact of coronavirus - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 22, 2020 This is the first of the biweekly findings report.
Kate Tiedemann, Ellen Cotton donate thousands to USF St. Pete fund - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 21, 2020 The couple joins the growing list of philanthropists who are giving to the university's
               relief fund.
Global tourism industry may shrink by more than 50% due to the pandemic - Beaumont EnterpriseApril 21, 2020 Due to the coronavirus, people around the world have canceled their travel plans.
               Governments and health officials have warned the public to avoid boarding cruise ships
               and long flights.
Pandemic could change the way we shop forever - Fox13 Tampa BayApril 21, 2020 Retailers closed during the coronavirus pandemic forced consumers to shop online
               and through apps, but the temporary changes could have some lasting impacts on the
               industry.
Dispatches from the Remote Front LinesApril 16, 2020 The dispatches from the remote front lines have revealed innovation, insights, advice
               and some chuckles as the faculty and staff of the Muma College of Business write about
               what life is like, not so much in the trenches, but at home, working remotely.
Selling with the Bulls Competition Held in a Virtual WorldApril 15, 2020 Selling with the Bulls competitions typically rely on students focused on future
               careers in sales coming together, meeting face-to-face, shaking hands and networking
               in person.
Online Work Surge Creates Business School Opportunity in Cybersecurity - AACSBApril 14, 2020 With the mass move to online work amid COVID-19, business schools can provide graduates
               with the cybersecurity know-how to lead in the digital workplace.
USF Center for Analytics and Creativity Research Predicts COVID-19 Peaks in Florida,
                  Hillsborough CountyApril 10, 2020 Recently released research by the Muma College of Business Center for Analytics and
               Creativity at the University of South Florida and Tampa General Hospital has predicted
               Florida should reach its peak of COVID-19 cases around April 21.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship Taking Initiatives to Help Startups Succeed during
                  COVID-19 CrisisApril 9, 2020 What could be worse for young entrepreneurs who have just started out than to have
               the government ordering them to close up shop indefinitely?
Another Email? Why Retailers Host Sales During Coronavirus Outbreak - NerdWalletApril 8, 2020 While Americans nationwide are hunting for toilet paper and hand sanitizer in the
               midst of COVID-19, our email inboxes are being inundated with advertisements for discounted
               apparel, luggage, accessories and other nonessential items.
Analytics Team Works with TGH to Determine Hospital Bed Availability in Different
                     COVID-19 ScenariosApril 8, 2020 As the nation struggles against COVID-19, hospitals are mounting their own battle
               on the front lines of the viral war.
Another Email? Why Retailers Host Sales During Coronavirus Outbreak - StarNews OnlineApril 8, 2020 While Americans nationwide are hunting for toilet paper and hand sanitizer in the
               midst of COVID-19, our email inboxes are being inundated with advertisements for discounted
               apparel, luggage, accessories and other nonessential items.
Gig workers have changed Florida’s workforce. The coronavirus response is starting
                     to reflect that. - Tampa Bay TimesApril 8, 2020 The coronavirus led officials to extend unemployment benefits to workers like independent
               contractors and gig workers.
Businesses seek help during pandemic - The Laker / Lutz NewsApril 7, 2020 The economy has been flattened by coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), and businesses
               are seeking a way to continue operating or to reopen their doors.
Florida SBDC at USF Pulling Small Businesses out of the COVID-19 MireApril 6, 2020 Small businesses across the nation are reeling in the face of coronavirus.
Drawing Dead: COVID-19 and the World Series of Poker - Psychology TodayApril 5, 2020 The World Series of Poker is the longest-running, best-attended poker tournament
               on the planet.
On the Other Hand, Impacted People Are Helping Impacted PeopleApril 3, 2020 There is no time like the present for Corporate America to become human.
USF AMA Chapter Cleans Up at National CompetitionApril 3, 2020 The USF AMA chapter placed No. 3 in the nation for the American Marketing Association
               case competition.
Eileen Rodriguez leads the Florida SBDC at a critical time for small businesses - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 3, 2020 Eileen Rodriguez has seen hurricanes come and go and has facilitated small business
               support programs, but the coronavirus outbreak is causing an unprecedented time for
               the organization.
Non-Essential Businesses Struggling with Shut-Downs, Lay-Offs, Focusing on SurvivingApril 2, 2020 The past president of Beef ‘O’ Brady’s and owner and current president of Little
               Greek Franchise Development, Vojnovic now oversees some 44 Little Greek franchises
               and has had to shut down his entire operation to help stop the spread of the deadly
               COVID-19.
Accounting 101: What Accountants Should Tell You About the COVID-19 Stimulus ChecksApril 1, 2020 The COVID-19 crisis, spreading across the globe, infecting hundreds of thousands
               of people and devastating economies in its path, has come at crunch time for U.S.
               taxpayers.
Alumni Spotlight: Gil Gonzalez, Keeping an Essential Business Running in the Time
                  of COVID-19April 1, 2020 Mission Critical Solutions has been in business for 30 years and founder/CEO Gil
               Gonzalez has never seen anything like this.
Retail Versus COVID-19: Some Changes May Become PermanentMarch 30, 2020 There is an old adage in business: “Nothing happens until someone sells something.”
Sports cancellations may cost Tampa Bay economy more than $300M - 24/7 SportsMarch 30, 2020 The mass cancellations and postponements of sporting events due to the COVID-19 coronavirus
               pandemic is a bitter pill for fans everywhere to swallow.
USF, United Soccer League partner on Rowdies marketing initiative - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 30, 2020 This is the first year of a partnership between USF and USL.
COVID-19 Makes its Mark on the Housing MarketMarch 27, 2020 The coronavirus pandemic has already disrupted life as most Americans know it.
Losing big sports events cost Tampa Bay some $360 million in economic impact - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 27, 2020 The cancelations were announced in early March just as the coronavirus spread: No
               WrestleMania, March Madness, Grand Prix or Valspar Championship.
Supermarkets Scramble To Meet Demand During Coronavirus Pandemic - WUSFMarch 27, 2020 The COVID-19 pandemic has filled homes across the globe but has emptied shelves at
               supermarkets.
Cyber Threats Rise in Times of Uncertainty, FearMarch 26, 2020 The dark threat of someone intruding into your cyberspace is ever present. It’s no
               secret that hackers have a variety of ways to infiltrate your computer systems, steal
               your identity, your Social Security, bank account and credit card numbers.
USF expert: Toilet paper, other supplies should return to stores once coronavirus
                     panic buying ends - WFLA News Channel 8March 26, 2020 All across the Tampa Bay area and Florida, store shelves are empty of essential items
               for many families.
Demand Sparks Shortages - WFLA News Channel 8March 26, 2020 A USF professor says if consumers will calm down and stop panic buying, things could
               return to store shelves much sooner because the supplies still there just can't keep
               up with the current demand.
As Tampa's food halls close, restaurateurs open their real estate to displaced chefs - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 26, 2020 Consolidating their real estate isn't about making money, they say. It's about preserving
               what few jobs they can.
Grocery Stores and Other Retailers Forced to Cope with Consumer Demand during COVID-19
                  OutbreakMarch 25, 2020 In normal times, shoppers browse the aisles of the grocery store, pick what they
               want or need, toss it into the cart and move on their way.
Major Sports and Entertainment Businesses Taking a Big COVID-19 Hit; How Soon Will
                  They Recover?March 24, 2020 With the economy in a COVID-19 free fall, everyone is feeling the pinch. But among
               those hit hardest are sports – professional and collegiate – and entertainment.
Here’s how state, feds are helping small business and why one St. Pete business owner
                     is calling for more - CatalystMarch 24, 2020 Mike Harting, CEO of 3 Daughters Brewing in St. Petersburg, is calling on elected
               officials to take quick action to help small business owners during the Covid-19 coronavirus
               pandemic.
Florida SBDC at USF Processing Emergency Loans to Help Small Businesses Weather the
                  COVID-19 StormMarch 23, 2020 As more and more small businesses begin to feel the pinch of closure or restrictive
               hours due to the COVID-19 outbreak, there is a helping hand for small business owners
               caught in this pandemic-dug tunnel.
Coronavirus: How Small Businesses Can Get Help - WUSFMarch 20, 2020 Many small businesses have closed or cut staff due to coronavirus. But federal and
               state help is available. 
Coronavirus Florida: Sarasota-Manatee restaurants shift to to-go, delivery - Herald-TribuneMarch 20, 2020 Before Gov. Ron DeSantis ordered all restaurants to switch exclusively to takeout
               and delivery, many Sarasota-Manatee restaurants were already going that way.
On coronavirus, we should be more like Taiwan | Column - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 20, 2020 The country has lessons to teach us on big data and public health, writes a USF professor.
Airbnb Said It Would Give Full Refunds For Coronavirus Cancellations. Vrbo Told Renters
                     To Take A Hike. - Buzzfeed NewsMarch 19, 2020 The home-sharing platform is siding with its hosts over renters — which consumers
               may not forget.
Small business loan program help for businesses suffering from coronavirus closures
                     opens in Tampa - FlapolMarch 19, 2020 The Florida SBDC at the University of South Florida will facilitate the Florida Small
               Business Emergency Bridge Loan Program for small businesses in the Tampa Bay area,
               Tampa Mayor Jane Castor announced Wednesday.
Bridge Loans Available - WFLAMarch 19, 2020 Governor DeSantis says released funding provides no interest bridge loans. The regional
               director for the Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida Eileen
               Rodriguez tells PM Tampa Bay a loan can be processed within 3 weeks.
How to be an Effective Manager When the Team is Working RemotelyMarch 18, 2020 With COVID-19 upending our lives, we all have to adjust to a new normal. One of the
               aspects of the new normal is remote work. It is the time when true priorities of the
               organizations are revealed.
Some Tips on Working RemotelyMarch 18, 2020 Are you finding yourself now at home working remotely? Is it something new for you?
               Are you finding it a little cumbersome?
New Restaurant Restrictions - WTVT Fox 13March 18, 2020 A USF expert on the local ecomony says some releif to hourly employees would help.
               He says the state is offering new emergency loans to small businesses. Congress is
               talking about help for hourly workers.
Coronavirus Florida: Sarasota-Manatee businesses can seek disaster loans - Herald-TribuneMarch 18, 2020 Small businesses in Sarasota and Manatee counties that are suffering economic losses
               from the coronavirus pandemic can apply for emergency loans through the Small Business
               Development Center at the University of South Florida.
USF grad school programs inch up on U.S. News and World Report rankings - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 17, 2020 The University of South Florida graduate schools overall, have inched up in a national
               ranking.
For U.S. Sports Leagues, The Cost Of Coronavirus Is $5 Billion—And Climbing - ForbesMarch 17, 2020 When Utah Jazz All-Star Rudy Gobert tested positive for the coronavirus last Wednesday,
               it triggered the NBA and other sports leagues to suspend play. Many fans thought (hoped?)
               teams would be back in action sometime in April. No more.
May Conversation with a CEO Features U.S. Special Operations Command General Richard
                  ClarkeMarch 12, 2020 The guest at the May Conversation with a CEO is a well-seasoned leader of men and
               women on the battlefield.
Bulls Business Community Students Tour Melitta, Talk Corporate Culture, CoffeeMarch 12, 2020 Members of the Muma College of Business Bulls Business Community toured Melitta’s
               Clearwater headquarters, which houses all of the company’s North America operations,
               in what may have been a coffee lover’s dream-come-true.
Incoming DBA Cohort is Flush with DiversityMarch 12, 2020 In a program that, year after year, assembles proven business, government and military
               leaders from all walks of life, this year’s incoming cohort in the Muma College of
               Business’ Doctor of Business Administration cohort is something special.
Robert Tiller Named Director of the Personal Financial Planning ProgramMarch 12, 2020 With decades of experience in financial planning, Robert Tiller, a graduate of the
               USF Muma College of Business Doctor of Business Administration Program, has been named
               the Raymond James Financial Director of the Personal Financial Planning Program.
Florida's state universities to move classes online, citing coronavirus - Florida TrendMarch 12, 2020 Florida higher education leaders on Wednesday directed all state universities to
               move classes online as soon as possible, citing the spread of coronavirus.
Coronavirus fears causing Tampa Bay stores to run low on supplies - News Channel 8March 4, 2020 Hand sanitizer, toilet paper and face masks are just some of the products that are
               now in short supply. COVID-19 concerns have now caused some consumers to stockpile
               items and empty shelves.
Florida businesses could suffer as coronavirus spreads to Brazil - Florida PoliticsFebruary 28, 2020 Brazil’s government confirmed Wednesday its first case of the coronavirus and suspects
               there could be more of them.
Scenes from this year’s Bizwomen Mentoring Monday in Tampa Bay - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 25, 2020 Tampa Bay Business Journal held its seventh annual Mentoring Monday, an event that
               connects local businesswomen with mentors for one-on-one mentoring sessions across
               American City Business Journal markets.
The Science of the Sell - WTVT-Fox 13February 23, 2020 Companies are learning how to get you to spend money at one of the few labs in the
               world that combine sales and marketing research.
USF Collects Biometric Data to Measure Impressions of Democratic Presidential Debate - Mirage NewsFebruary 21, 2020 Thirty-five University of South Florida students and faculty members participated
               in an experiment during Wednesday night’s Democratic presidential debate that has
               never been conducted before.
Thompson: new solutions for a new age — finance and banking - Herald-TribuneFebruary 20, 2020 If you were to make a list of fields least likely to value creativity, finance and
               banking might hit the top. This sector is rife with strict rules, regulations and
               compliance requirements, and rightly so.
USF research team to track live Democratic debate reaction using biometrics - News Channel 8February 19, 2020 Researchers at the University of South Florida will use biometrics to track real
               time responses to Wednesday’s Democratic presidential debate.
Wiring Up For Debate Reaction at USF - 95.3 WDAEFebruary 18, 2020 Some Florida college students and professors will be giving their "gut reactions"
               to tonight's Democratic presidential debate.
What a feelin’: USF to analyze viewers' biometric data during next Democratic debate - WTSP-10 NewsFebruary 18, 2020 Instead of asking what they think about the candidates, University of South Florida
               researchers will measure how viewers feel in real-time.
Alumna Spotlight: Rebecca Scheuer Breaks Free, Plans Events on her OwnFebruary 14, 2020 Armed with a master’s degree in marketing and several years of networking, gaining
               experience, attending countless meetings and conferences, Rebecca Scheuer has found
               her own path.
ISDS Prof. Denny Yin Co-authors Paper on Effectiveness of Online Medical SitesFebruary 14, 2020 In a world that is increasingly looking for answers online, the sick and injured
               now are relying more and more on the Internet to address their health problems.
Bloomin' Brands Chief David Deno Scheduled to be the Conversation with a CEO Guest
                  in MarchFebruary 12, 2020 Overseeing a corporation that runs nearly 1,500 restaurants in 48 states, not to
               mention nearly two dozen other countries, David Deno seldom has time to even sit down
               for a relaxing meal.
Muma College of Business Researchers, Students to Assist in Analyzing Biometric Data
                  Collected at Feb. 19 Democratic Presidential DebateFebruary 12, 2020 So, how do you feel about the Democratic presidential candidates? Really?
Former Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio Featured at the February Conversation with a CEOFebruary 12, 2020 Among Tampa’s favorite sons and daughters – dedicated people who over the years have
               proven themselves through focused public service – Pam Iorio is near the top of the
               list.
Pump it up or turn it down? Restaurant patrons weigh in on music - bizwomen: The Business JournalsFebruary 4, 2020 Looking forward to an evening out with good food and good friends? You might want
               to save your conversation for an after-dinner drink at home.
India’s Draft National Strategy On Blockchain Calls For Official Cryptocurrency - Inc 42January 28, 2020 Nearly two months after the government said that it was working on a national framework
               for blockchain, the National Institute for Smart Governance (NISG) has now submitted
               a draft national strategy on blockchain for stakeholder comments.
Government calls for stakeholder comments on national strategy on blockchain - TechCircleJanuary 28, 2020 In its first step towards creating a legal and a regulatory architecture around blockchain
               technology, the National Institute for Smart Government (NISG) has sought stakeholder
               comments on the ‘National Strategy on Blockchain.’
Kobe Bryant jerseys in short supply after ex-NBA star's death - CBS NewsJanuary 28, 2020 Kobe Bryant fans are struggling to find his Los Angeles Lakers jersey one day after
               the superstar's death.
Nike: We've run out of all Kobe Bryant merchandise - CBS NewsJanuary 28, 2020 Sports fans looking to buy Kobe Bryant related merchandise from Nike won't find any
               products available because the company has run out of Bryant jerseys, shoes, t-shirts
               and more, a company spokesman confirmed to CBS MoneyWatch on Tuesday.
USF Sarasota-Manatee to welcome ‘Drone TETRA 2020’ drone technology conference - Your SunJanuary 28, 2020 Interest in drone technology is soaring with conventions and expositions globally.
               Now, the University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee is partnering with drone experts
               to hold a conference to explore drone use in educational, commercial and recreational
               settings.
This is the best week to buy a TV! - WTSP-10 NewsJanuary 27, 2020 There are always deals before the big game.
Kobe Bryant jerseys in short supply after ex-NBA star's death - WCBIJanuary 27, 2020 Bryant’s jersey wasn’t available on NBAStore.com, the official website for ordering
               NBA gear, for much of Monday, and there were slim pickings on Monday afternoon at
               the league’s flagship New York store in Manhattan.
Sixth Annual Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference to be held in AprilJanuary 15, 2020 For the sixth consecutive year, the USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference
               Powered by Ticketmaster will present cutting-edge trends to its audience of sports
               marketers, business data analysts and students.
U.S. News & World Report: Florida schools that rank in top 100 for online degree and
                     MBA programs - Florida TodayJanuary 15, 2020 Florida colleges and universities rank among the top 100 for online programs in several
               subjects, according to the latest U.S. News and World Report ranking.
USF, SPC ranked among top online programs by U.S. News and World Report - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 14, 2020 U.S. News added 18 new specialty rankings within several disciplines to the list,
               including civil engineering, special education and nursing administration.
ISDS Researchers Identify Public Transportation as Key to the Region's Upward TrajectoryJanuary 9, 2020 The State of the Region conference is the annual forum in which a year’s worth of
               research is unveiled, research that measures factors that contribute to the quality
               of life of this and other regions.
Grow Financial Donates to Scholarship Fund Named for Retiring CEO Bob FisherJanuary 7, 2020 Bob Fisher is among the longest serving members of the Muma College of Business’
               Executive Advisory Council, having been a mainstay on the board for the past 14 or
               15 years.
Thrift stores and ’90s fashion are so in, they’re disrupting traditional retailers - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 3, 2020 With ′90s style trending and the environment on their minds, teens and 20-somethings
               have a growing appetite for secondhand clothes.
What’s new at H-FARM? - Innovators MagazineJanuary 3, 2020 H-FARM is a great example of what effective education should look like in the 21st
               century.
Back to top
2019
Jeff Vinik bought the Lightning. Then his influence spread over Tampa Bay. - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 29, 2019 Vinik and his family have left a mark on development, transportation, and tech, among
               other things.
Column: Ralphs is now charging 50 cents for cash back at the register - Los Angeles TimesDecember 20, 2019 Airlines, banks, phone companies — each has boosted its bottom line by hitting customers
               with nickel-and-dime charges for services that were once offered for free.
Michael Fountain Looks Back At How USF's Approach To Entrepreneurship Evolved - WUSFDecember 18, 2019 When Michael Fountain retires next May, the founding director of the University of
               South Florida Center for Entrepreneurship will be leaving behind both a school and
               field, that have changed greatly in the almost 25 years he’s been there.
Tech-skill certificates may be more valuable than a college degree - TechRepublicDecember 17, 2019 The Florida-based cybersecurity company ReliaQuest partnered with the University
               of South Florida and its Muma College of business, pledging $1 million over five years
               for cybersecurity training program, a four-week immersive program on cybersecurity.
ZAP Students Headed to Harvard to Present Pitch for Website Supporting Sensory-Impaired
                     PeopleDecember 12, 2019 Two Zimmerman Advertising Program students and a biomedical science major are headed
               to Harvard University in the spring to pitch an idea aimed at paving a path to inclusion
               for sensory-impaired people.
Studying Abroad: Much More than Classes and Tours; A First-Person AccountDecember 12, 2019 I never expected this, but the trip abroad as part of the Vinik Sport & Entertainment
               Management Program last month did more than just show me how the business of marketing
               works across the pond.
Alumnus Spotlight: J.C. Milam's Start-up Takes a Fresh Look at SustainabilityDecember 12, 2019 When you go into the grocery store for milk, do you check the expiration date? And
               do you fish around in the back of the shelf to get the expiration date that is a week
               later than the one on the jugs in the front?
The new Master of Science in Entrepreneurship and Applied Technologies - H-FARMDecember 5, 2019 We have signed an agreement with the University of South Florida (USF), which for
               the first time will bring its highly successful Master of Science in Entrepreneurship
               and Applied Technologies (MSEAT) to Europe.
Marketing Research is Going High Tech - KSHB-KC (NBC)December 4, 2019 A team at the University of South Florida is using eye tracking, facial expression,
               and skin response software to detect your response to things like ads and menus.
USF combining science and marketing to revolutionize how items are sold to consumers - ABC Action NewsDecember 3, 2019 The University of South Florida is combining science and marketing in a way that
               could revolutionize how items are sold.
Muma College of Business Signs Agreement with H-FARM in Italy to Offer Graduate Degrees
                  in EntrepreneurshipDecember 2, 2019 An agreement signed earlier this fall will span an ocean, connect continents and
               link the University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business with H-FARM Education,
               a private institution in Italy that creates and nurtures startups and educates budding
               entrepreneurs.
Generation Z: Still in school, and already their own boss - Fox 13 Tampa BayNovember 21, 2019 Connor Totten's bedroom isn't just his sanctuary at home. It's where he's creating
               his future in clothing design.
Muma College of Business Signs Agreement with H-FARM in Italy to Offer Graduate Degrees
                  in EntrepreneurshipNovember 19, 2019 An agreement signed earlier this fall will span an ocean, connect continents and
               link the University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business with H-FARM Education,
               a private institution in Italy that creates and nurtures startups and educates budding
               entrepreneurs.
USF receives $250K from ConnectWise founder to study cybersecurity - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 18, 2019 This is the latest philanthropic donation from Bellini and his wife, who donated
               $7 million to Tampa Catholic earlier this year.
Former USF football player now tackles roles at theme parks - Fox 13 Tampa BayNovember 18, 2019 In 2011, USF football center Chaz Hine was a mix of brawn and baritone. One of his
               singing performances was at a luncheon at the College of Business where he got his
               MBA.
Special ceremony at USF will formally welcome President Steve Currall - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 14, 2019 An investiture ceremony is set for Thursday at 2 p.m. inside USF’s
               Yuengling Center in Tampa. Currall and other USF leaders will speak about the school’s
               future.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship Ranked No. 8 in the Nation by The Princeton ReviewNovember 13, 2019 For the third time, the University of South Florida’s Center for Entrepreneurship
               cracked the Top 10 ranking for graduate entrepreneurship programs by The Princeton
               Review.
Sounds, smells can drive what we buy - Fox 13 Tampa BayNovember 13, 2019 Marketing pros say our senses have a lot to do with what we buy,
               how much we spend, and where we shop.
See how USF and UT ranked among the nation's top entrepreneurship programs - Tampa
                  Bay Business JournalNovember 13, 2019 The University of Tampa also placed for the first time in the top 50 entrepreneur
               undergraduate programs.
Elaine Singleton Tapped as Director of the Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management
                  & SustainabilityNovember 8, 2019 The newly named Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management
               & Sustainability has a brand new director.
NASA Lands at the Muma College of Business, with Astronaut and Moon Rock in TowNovember 6, 2019 When an ounce of fruit punch escapes a straw in the zero-gravity, it forms a perfect
               sphere. Flames in space also are perfectly round. And, the cuisine aboard a shuttle
               or the International Space Station … not that good.
Commerce In Space Is The Final Frontier, Say NASA Scientists, Former Astronaut - WUSFNovember 5, 2019 NASA scientists and a former astronaut on Tuesday told a group of local students
               and future entrepreneurs that doing business in space can be on everyone's agenda.
USF-NASA exhibit connects business, engineering-minded stargazers to possibilities
                     of space travel - Fox 13 Tampa BayNovember 5, 2019 In the 1960s, the space program was remarkable and almost unbelievable. That generation
               saw it become routine for the shuttle to fly to the International Space Station.
ISDS Professor Lands a $250K Grant to Study Cybersecurity, Dark WebNovember 5, 2019 A contingent of USF faculty made the treacherous I-4 trip to Orlando late last month,
               and it paid off.
ConnectWise-initiated IT threat intelligence sharing body gears up for launch to provide
                     ‘Star Wars’ defense against cyber attacks - channelbuzz.caNovember 5, 2019 The idea is to provide an open source SOAR that will stop the present practice of
               doing threat intelligence in isolation, and the plan is to have its initial iteration
               live by January 1.
President Trump Making Florida His Primary Home - Bay News 9November 2, 2109 USF accounting instructor Luke Richardson says it's a possibility that President
               Trump is looking to escape the hefty income taxes of New York.
USF Jabil Innovation Institute Aims For Interdisciplinary Solutions - WUSFOctober 30, 2019 The origin of the University of South Florida Jabil Innovation Institute is like
               that of many great ideas thoughout history – drawn up on a cocktail napkin by two
               people talking over drinks.
NCAA Reversal On Student-Athlete Pay Likely Not Fair Fix, Sports Marketing Expert
                     Says - WJCTOctober 29, 2019 The National Collegiate Athletic Association announcement on student-athlete compensation
               Tuesday came after years of pressure from the athletes, lawyers and politicians. But
               critics of the change warn that it might not provide much fairness.
Student Spotlight: Johanna Rytkoenen, from Finland, a Fulbright ScholarOctober 28, 2019 Johanna Rytkoenen is a long way from her native Finland and there is a lot to learn
               over here in the United States, ranging from the content in lectures in the graduate
               courses she’s taking to the tiniest of details outside of the university.
USF Partners with Jabil - Bay News 9October 25, 2019 USF announced a new million-dollar partnership with Jabil. The St. Petersburg-based
               company is investing in the school to create the USF Jabil Innovation Institute.
Jabil Donates $1 Million, Creates USF Jabil Innovation Institute to Benefit Muma College
                     of Business, College of EngineeringOctober 24, 2019 The close relationship between USF and Jabil, one of the world's largest contract
               manufacturers, with more than 180,000 employees working in 102 locations throughout
               30-some countries, grew a little closer Thursday with the announcement of a $1 million
               gift that establishes the USF Jabil Innovation Institute.
USF and Jabil Inc. Announce $1 Million Partnership to Establish the USF Jabil Innovation
                     Institute - Florida TrendOctober 24, 2019 The University of South Florida today announced a $1 million partnership with Jabil
               to launch the USF Jabil Innovation Institute.
USF and Jabil launching Innovation Institute - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 24, 2019 The initiative, to which Jabil will contribute $1 million in its first year, began
               with an idea sketched on a bar napkin.
USF And Jabil Teaming Up For Innovation Institute - WUSFOctober 24, 2019 Two Tampa area leaders in education and technology are teaming up, as the University
               of South Florida Jabil Innovation Institute was unveiled Thursday.
University of South Florida, Jabil announce $1 million joint institute - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 24, 2019 Jabil will lease space in in the Tampa Bay Technology Incubator, located in USF's
               Research Park.
QS World ranks MS in Business Analytics and Information Systems No. 27 in the Nation,
                     No. 47 in the WorldOctober 22, 2019 The MS in Business Analytics and Information Systems in the University of South Florida’s
               Muma College of Business was recently ranked No. 47 worldwide – and No. 27 in the
               United States and No. 1 in Florida – in the 2020 QS World ranking for business analytics
               programs.
Data Analytics, Creativity Is Essential For Future Leaders to Survive: Dr Moez Limayem,
                     Dean USF - BWEducationOctober 19, 2019 In an exclusive interaction with BW, Moez Limayem, Dean of the University of South
               Florida (USF) Muma College of Business, talks about the evolving management education
               – challenges and opportunities.
Похудеть раз и навсегда. Теория заговора. Выпуск от 19.10.2019 - YouTubeOctober 19, 2019 Все мы осенью набираем лишний вес. Всему виной серость за окном и, как следствие,
               плохое настроение.
Alumni Spotlight: Pair of Accounting Alumni Honored by Tampa Hispanic HeritageOctober 11, 2019 Two University of South Florida accounting graduates were recognized earlier this
               month for their dedicated work during their long careers and giving back to the community
               from which they rose.
Student Spotlight: Tomas Yeatts, 21, Finance Student Bringing Alpaca Wool to the MarketOctober 11, 2019 Tomas Yeatts grew up in Bolivia, amid the sweeping Andes where the indigenous people
               herded those strange, wide-eyed animals called alpacas.
Faculty Spotlight: Marvin Karlins Pens Autobiography of Tampa PhilanthropistOctober 11, 2019 With dozens of books having passed through his keyboard and into publication, Marvin
               Karlins, a professor in the Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department at
               the Muma College of Business, is most jazzed about this one.
Proposed Center for Real Estate Studies Broadens Scope of Education at the Muma College
                     of BusinessOctober 11, 2019 With an ever sharpening focus on student success and a strategic plan to provide
               the tools graduates need to land well-paying jobs, the University of South Florida’s
               Muma College of Business is moving toward creating another center of excellence.
Faculty, Staff, Students, Les and Pam Muma Attend the Five Year Anniversary of the
                  Muma College of Business NamingOctober 10, 2019 Since 2014, when Pam and Les Muma gave USF $25 million to support and rename the
               business college, the bonds have only grown closer.
How Tech Data stays ahead of the IT curve - CatalystOctober 10, 2019 If there’s one thing that keeps Tech Data Corp. CEO Rich Hume up at night, it’s making
               sure the Clearwater-based IT distributor’s strategy is on the right track.
Groundbreaking Research To Study Menu Design In The New Era Of Online Ordering - Yahoo! FinanceOctober 1, 2019 Study uses eye-tracking software to reveal how digital natives and non-natives react
               to menu medium and design
A Look Back at USF eSports Summit 2019 - USF eSports BlogSeptember 25, 2019 One week ago the inaugural USF eSports Summit brought together a sold-out audience
               of over 400 attendees including national esports industry leaders, sports and entertainment
               executives, investors, media, government leaders, economic development professionals,
               university students, and faculty to learn about the business of the $1 billion eSports
               industry.
Opportunities, accessibility and other top takeaways from Tampa Bay's first esports
                     summit - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 23, 2019 Esports goes beyond video games — it's a billion-dollar industry that Tampa Bay wants
               in on.
Could competitive video gaming be the next big thing in Tampa Bay? - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 19, 2019 Jeff Vinik isn’t ready to build a dedicated arena in Tampa for video games. But he
               doesn’t rule out the city “getting there” in a few years.
Vinik’s ‘remarkable’ investment could fuel corporate talent pipelines - CatalystSeptember 19, 2019 Esports are big business, with the global esports industry expected to top $50 billion
               in revenue this year.
What the CEO of Nestlé USA, a USF grad, looks for in new hires - CatalystSeptember 19, 2019 The University of South Florida graduate who heads the U.S. division of the world’s
               largest food company is more concerned about his workers’ EQ than their IQ.
Inaugural USF eSports Summit Explains it All at a Sold-Out EventSeptember 18, 2019 Move over Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Rays, Lightning, Rowdies, there’s a new sport in
               town.
Video Gaming Industry's Potential Focus Of USF Summit - WUSFSeptember 18, 2019 Video gamers and national eSports industry leaders gathered in Tampa Wednesday to
               talk about gaming as a culture and as a business, across the country and in the Tampa
               Bay area.
Huge eSports Summit happening today at USF - WTSP 10 NewsSeptember 18, 2019 The inaugural eSports Summit is hosted by Jeff Vinik’s sports and entertainment management
               program at USF.
Business of gaming comes to USF eSports Summit - Fox13September 18, 2019 You may love the graphics, the controls, and what happens on the screen, but students
               who attended the University of South Florida's first e-summit love the work, opportunities,
               and dollar signs.
The future of sports lies in the hands of pro gamers - The OracleSeptember 18, 2019 Students and business professionals flocked to the USF Muma College of Business atrium
               Wednesday to listen to eight panels of speakers talk about none other than video games.
Donation from Little Greek President Nick Vojnovic Names Reception AreaSeptember 13, 2019 Nick Vojnovic is no stranger to the Muma College of Business. He is a member of the
               Executive Advisory Council, an Executive MBA graduate and occasional guest lecturer,
               and president of Little Greek Fresh Grill, a restaurant that often provides the grilled
               chicken or falafels or hummus that feeds the masses at the college.
Residential Communities Provide Lasting Impact for Students - USF NewsSeptember 12, 2019 Hundreds of residential students at the University of South Florida live in smaller,
               tight-knit clusters known as Living and Learning Communities (LLCs).
Consolidation plans demand ‘a desire for clarity’ - The OracleSeptember 11, 2019 Most consolidation details are still yet to be known, however, USF President Steve
               Currall started the discussion in establishing the organizational structure for USF
               as a single-accredited university at the Board of Trustees meeting on Tuesday morning.
Try smelling food when you crave for it! - The Siasat DailySeptember 9, 2019 If you are a food junkie but worried about putting on weight, try whiffing the meal!
Muma College of Business to Host Inaugural USF eSports Summit Later this MonthSeptember 6, 2019 Playing video games for fun – and now profit – has gotten as close to mainstream
               entertainment as it can and is positioning itself as what may be the next prime-time
               phenomenon.
USF summit will define the Tampa esports scene right now - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 6, 2019 USF's eSports Summit on Sept. 18 will gather leaders from across the esports ecosystem
               to discuss the growth and future of the industry.
Craving For Greasy And Fattening Food? Just Smell It - India.comSeptember 5, 2019 Study says smelling fattening food could possibly satisfy your cravings as the brain
               doesn't necessarily differentiate the source of sensory pleasure.
Craving junk food? Just take a whiff of it and save up on the calories - hindustantimes.comSeptember 3, 2019 Just a whiff of fried food may entice you to order a high-calorie meal, but a new
               study says ambient food scent can directly satisfy the belly.
Craving for fattening food? Just smell it! - Big News Network.comSeptember 3, 2019 Just a whiff of fried food may entice you to order a high-calorie meal, but a new
               study says ambient food scent can directly satisfy the belly.
Footloose Theme Highlights the Journey of Students and Donors at the Annual Muma College
                     of Business Scholarship LuncheonAugust 30, 2019 The paths of some 400 people converged Friday morning in the USF Marshall Student
               Center, though it was the journey of Renata Gomes Martins that took center stage at
               the annual Muma College of Business Scholarship Luncheon.
Five USF Teams to Compete in the 2019 Florida Blue Health Innovation CompetitionAugust 29, 2019 University of South Florida international students Aigerim Ibraimkhanova and Nasibakhon
               Khodieva have teamed up to earn a spot in the 2019 Florida Blue Health Innovation
               Competition.
For A Better Dining Experience, Please Be Seated - WUSFAugust 28, 2019 If you want to enjoy the food you're eating more, a sensory marketing expert from
               the University of South Florida suggests you have a seat.
Student Spotlight: Timothy Boynton, MBA Student, Named to the 40 Under 40 List of
                  International Philanthropy OrganizationAugust 23, 2019 Tim Boynton saves lives, though he’s not a doctor or a physician’s assistant or a
               registered nurse.
Faculty Spotlight: Seckin Ozkul's Specialty: Moving Freight Safely and EfficientlyAugust 23, 2019 Moving loads of freight from one place to another is what Seckin Ozkul is all about.
Why shakedown artists find it so easy to bamboozle Florida cities out of cash and
                     data - Miami HeraldAugust 23, 2019 Over just eight weeks, four Florida cities announced network security breaches.
Who’s coming into your home? Boca homicide makes you wonder - The Palm Beach PostAugust 22, 2019 The man accused in the beating death of a woman whose appliances he had just delivered
               for Best Buy didn’t work for the electronics giant. He worked for a company hired
               by a company hired by Best Buy.
Hollywood Casino Toledo Slots Allegedly Used for Attempted Laundering of $138,000 - Casino.orgAugust 17, 2019 A man accused of trying to launder $138,843 of alleged “drug profits” through “fast
               feeding” at Hollywood Casino Toledo pleaded not guilty this week to all charges, according
               to Ohio federal court officials.
Cyber leaders must take ownership of cyber skills gap - SC MagazineAugust 15, 2019 We’ve all heard about the cyber skills gap by now. As cyber adversaries grow more
               advanced and organizations struggle to manage these evolving threats, cybersecurity
               jobs are getting harder to fill.
G.I. Bill Offsets the Costs for Many Enrolled in the Doctor of Business Administration
                  ProgramAugust 13, 2019 The students of the Muma College of Business Doctor of Business Administration program
               are seasoned executives with decades of experience leading companies through good
               times and bad.
The needs of baby boomers will keep unemployment low | Column - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 12, 2019 In 2011, during the dismal depths of the recession, I had written a column for the
               then-St. Petersburg Times stating that the unemployment rate would decline faster
               than forecast once the huge wave of seniors would begin to retire.
NASA's Destination Station Set to Touch Down this November in the Muma College of
                     Business BreezewayAugust 9, 2019 Having already visited such exotic places as the moon, Venus, Mars and even an asteroid
               named Eros, NASA now has plans to land a little closer to home: Touch down is expected
               at USF and the Muma College of Business’ breezeway in November.
Tech Data's Rich Hume to be the Guest at the October Conversation with a CEOAugust 8, 2019 After spending 30 years at IBM, Rich Hume did what few settled into a career do:
               He considered a change.
Faculty Spotlight: Murad Antia Sees the Economic Future, Explains Where it is HeadedAugust 8, 2019 Murad Antia knows where to find answers to troubling questions about the nation’s
               economy and where it’s going.
USF Enters Agreement with Florida Bankers Association to Market Online MBA Program
                     to MembersAugust 8, 2019 The Muma College of Business’ online MBA program may soon get an influx of students
               from the banking, savings and loan and other affiliated institutions around the state,
               thanks to an agreement recently struck between USF and the FBA.
Researchers: Blockchain Emerging as the Next Big Innovation in Global TradeAugust 7, 2019 Blockchain technology is poised to impact businesses – and society – by transforming
               commerce through low-cost, immutable, truthful, transparent systems without relying
               on a trusted third party.
USF professor on artificial intelligence: 'Data is the new oil' - Fox13August 6, 2019 President Trump says China manipulated its currency to gain an unfair trade advantage.
               But, while many watch the stock market, another battle with China is brewing. It’s
               a race for artificial intelligence, or AI.
Helping Kids Eat More Food - WINK NewsJuly 30, 2019 it's a problem many parents have ... how do you get your kids to eat the foods they
               don't like? well one researcher at the university of south florida says... he has
               the answer!
Study: Standing may make yucky foods more tolerable - Fox13July 29, 2019 Sometimes it's not easy to get kids to eat foods they don't like. Dipayan Biswas,
               a marketing professor at the University Of South Florida, may have a solution.
This Is What Experts Say Will Turn the Tide Against Increasing Cyberthreats - Security IntelligenceJuly 25, 2019 Despite the $124 billion that Gartner estimated organizations would spend fending
               off cyberthreats this year, the frequency and severity of incidents continues to grow.
Gene Frenette: Ramsey brings Jaguars needed entertainment value - Jacksonville.comJuly 25, 2019 Leave it to the Jaguars’ biggest celebrity, Jalen Ramsey, to bring levity to his
               own contract situation and make the start of training camp a lot more interesting.
Junk Food Places Lure You in With Scent, But This Brain Hack Beats Them at Their Own
                     Game - IncJuly 23, 2019 Yes, it's possible to get all the satisfaction with none of the calories.
Gen Z Is Ready To Disrupt The Multifamily Space - BisNowJuly 18, 2019 With an estimated $143B in buying power, they are ready to take over and disrupt
               the multifamily space, Streetsense Managing Principal Eric Burka said.
This Brandon Kohl's is busy returning your Amazon orders - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 12, 2019 The unlikely partnership is just the latest example of how retailers are experimenting
               to attract shoppers.
Does Food Taste Better When You’re Sitting? - RateMDsJuly 10, 2019 Not just a gauge of confidence level, posture can determine how good your food tastes,
               too.
Timberwolves, Lynx take big steps for ticket sales compensation - Sports Business JournalJuly 8, 2019 In a world where base salaries for entry-level ticket sales representatives have
               been below $30,000 for more than a decade, it has become more difficult to attract
               talented young men and women.
USF gets into the game of e-sports - Fox 13July 4, 2019 You may think video games are just for fun, but now e-sports are turning into big
               competition and big business.
Best U.S. Colleges And Universities For Entrepreneurship Studies, 2019 - CEOWorld MagazineJuly 1, 2019 While landing into a dream job is one of the important aspirations for every MBA
               enthusiast, some love to become entrepreneurs and lead a company with the acquired
               knowledge during the course.
Renata Gomes Martins' Journey Passes Through USF, Brazil, Prague and Nairobi ... And
                     That's Just This YearJune 28, 2019 Growing up, Renata Gomes Martins had food on the table, but not much else.
Michigan State Professor Doug Hughes to Chair the Muma College of Business Marketing
                  DepartmentJune 28, 2019 Michigan State University’s Doug Hughes is making the trip down to the Sunshine State
               to land in the chair of the Marketing Department at USF’s Muma College of Business.
Showing Support for the Rays - Bay News 9June 28, 2019 While they agree the Trop isn't the best place for the Rays, they say Tampa Bay is.
               Now, they're encouraging fans to get out to games and show their support.
How the CEOs of KnowBe4, ReliaQuest view tech hiring - CatalystJune 26, 2019 Top executives at two of the largest and fastest-growing cybersecurity companies
               in the Tampa Bay area say they don’t have any trouble hiring workers.
New Research Shows Food May Taste Better If You Eat While Sitting - Boston 25 WFXTJune 13, 2019 If you're getting ready to eat breakfast you may want to take a seat. Research says
               food may taste better while you are sitting.
Foods May Taste Better If You're Sitting - U.S. News and World ReportJune 12, 2019 Everybody eats while standing at parties, picnics and food trucks, but science suggests
               we'd all enjoy our food much more if we sat down.
Study: Sitting Down is Better for Eating - Bay News 9June 11, 2019 Researchers say you will enjoy your food much more if you take a seat.
Deterrence-based audit policies reduce excess costs in health care, study finds - FIU NewsJune 10, 2019 Skyrocketing spending and excess costs in the health care industry are reduced by
               innovative auditing methods that focus on increasing overall deterrence of waste and
               abuse in the long run.
Fussy children enjoy vegetables more when STANDING UP, study reveals - MirrorJune 10, 2019 Researchers from the University of South Florida have found that foods you don't
               enjoy taste better when you're standing up
Here's Why You Shouldn't Stand and Eat, According to Research - Martha StewartJune 10, 2019 Researchers at the University of South Florida say there's only one instance where
               you may benefit from eating a meal while standing.
Your eating posture may impact taste of food - TheWeekJune 10, 2019 Food tastes better when you are sitting down, say scientists
Bay Area malls making big changes to lure online shoppers - Fox 13 NewsJune 10, 2019 In the 2004 movie "Mean Girls," the shopping mall was where the cool kids hung out.
               But for Gen Z, not so much. 
Posture Impacts How You Perceive Your Food - USF NewsJune 10, 2019 Summertime is often filled with outdoor parties and food trucks, meaning you’re spending
               more time standing up and eating. But if you want to actually enjoy your meal, researchers
               say you’re better off finding a seat.
Meals taste better when you are seated: Study - Business StandardJune 9, 2019 Food tastes better when you are sitting down, say scientists who found that holding
               a standing posture for even a few minutes prompts physical stress, muting taste buds.
Why eating while standing can be dangerous for you - Times of IndiaJune 9, 2019 Researchers have found that spending more time standing up and eating for even a
               few minutes prompts physical stress, muting taste buds.
To Your Health - WTOP-DCJune 8, 2019 Your food may taste better if you sit down, but that may make you eat
               too much.
Do you stand and eat in office? It may increase physical stress, mute taste buds - The Economic TimesJune 8, 2019 When people experience discomfort, food that normally tastes good doesn't appear
               as pleasant to the palate.
Eating while standing ups stress, mutes taste buds - India TVJune 8, 2019 When people experience discomfort, foods that normally taste good do not appear as
               pleasant to the palate.
Eating while standing ups stress, mutes taste buds - Times of IndiaJune 8, 2019 Researchers have found that spending more time standing up and eating for even a
               few minutes prompts physical stress, muting taste buds.
Posture impacts how you perceive your food - ScienceDailyJune 7, 2019 Summertime is often filled with outdoor parties and food trucks, meaning you're spending
               more time standing up and eating. But if you want to actually enjoy your meal, researchers
               say you're better off finding a seat.
Steve Presley, Head of Nestlé USA and USF alumnus, to be the Next Guest at the Conversation
                  with a CEOJune 5, 2019 Just over a year ago, Steve Presley, a University of South Florida alumnus, landed
               one sweet gig. He was appointed CEO of Nestlé USA, a company that boasts close to
               $10 billion in annual sales with brands that go well beyond Nestlé Toll House cookies.
ISDS Professor's NSF Grant Will Fund Research Aimed at Protecting Scientific Instruments
                  from Cyber AttackJune 5, 2019 The rapidly evolving computer technologies in scientific instruments makes it possible
               to make huge strides in the breadth of knowledge about the universe.
How much are people willing to spend at theme parks? More every year - Tampa Bay TimesMay 30, 2019 Prices keep rising and so does attendance. Theme parks had attendance of more than
               a half-billion visits for the first time in history.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Ranked No. 4 in the World for Second
                     Consecutive YearMay 30, 2019 For the second consecutive year, the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program
               has been ranked fourth best in the world by SportBusiness International and No. 3
               in North America.
Top Student from India Conducting Research in Exclusive BAIS Summer Internship ProgramMay 23, 2019 Someone special is here over the next month, participating in an exclusive internship
               program at the University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business.
Can't Stand the Food You're Eating? Sit Down ThenMay 22, 2019 In Japan, restaurateurs continue to grow a centuries’ old tradition of forgoing seats
               and tables and providing space at counters where patrons order and eat while standing
               up.
How do Great Companies Stay on Track? Les Muma Reveals the Formula of Success at Accounting
                     Circle's CPE ConferenceMay 21, 2019 If you’re looking for someone who holds the real keys to business success, look no
               further than Les Muma, whose 30-some-year career began on a risk, but ended with a
               retirement from a company that now posts billions in profits.
Ask the doctors: Smelling junk food long enough may quash a craving - The Spokesman-ReviewMay 16, 2019 I read about a study that said smelling junk food you want to quit eating — hello,
               pizza and doughnuts — will stop your craving. Is that really true? I want to eat healthier,
               but some foods are so hard to resist.
Latest Trends in Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and the Dark Web Revealed
                  at the Florida Business Analytics ForumMay 14, 2019 When you are unlucky enough to find out a stranger has already received your tax
               refund, or that you purchased a new living room suite in California when you’ve never
               been to California, your first thought is which restaurant server or convenience store
               clerk had your credit card last night.
KnowBe4 Donates $1.75 Million to Anti-Phishing Research and to Train Students for
                     a Widening Job MarketMay 14, 2019 A prominent cybersecurity training company in Clearwater will donate $1.75 million
               in cash and software to the USF Foundation to teach and train Muma College of Business
               students to serve on the front lines in the growing battle with cyber threats.
Clearwater cybersecurity firm donates training, money to USF College of Business - Tampa Bay Business JournalMay 14, 2019 The in-kind training and donation equal $1.75 million, the company said.
Turn Down the Muzak - Winsight Grocery BusinessMay 14, 2019 A recent study published in the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science reports
               that people make poorer food choices in noisier environments and healthier dining
               choices in quieter ones.
Uber shares continue sliding in first full day of trading - StarTribuneMay 13, 2019 Uber's earliest investors are still making money off the IPO, but "for late-round
               investors, it's possible by the time they exit they will end up with a loss," said
               Jay Ritter, finance professor at the University of South Florida.
USF approves three new majors in College of Business - Tampa Bay Business JournalMay 10, 2019 One approved degree is a direct response to the need for talent in Florida’s growing
               supply chain industry.
Too much smiling in a sales pitch could kill the deal - Domain-BMay 2, 2019 Spending too much time exuding joy is one of the fastest ways to lose a potential
               investor. A new study published in the Academy of Management Journal concludes one
               of the keys to financial persuasion is to strategically incorporate emotion and limit
               its duration.
USF To Graduate Youngest Student In School History - WJCTMay 1, 2019 Ceremony includes master’s and doctoral degree recipients from the College of Arts
               and Sciences, College of Behavioral and Community Sciences and Muma College of Business.
               Pamela Muma will receive an honorary doctorate in business administration. Richard
               Gonzmart will receive the President’s Distinguished Citizen Award.
Mark Taylor Named Director of the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy After a Two
                     Year SearchApril 30, 2019 After a two-year search, the Muma College of Business has selected a new director
               for the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy: Mark Taylor, department chair and accounting
               professor with the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University.
Too Much Smiling in a Sales Pitch Could Kill the Deal - USF NewsApril 30, 2019 Spending too much time exuding joy is one of the fastest ways to lose a potential
               investor. A new study published in the Academy of Management Journal concludes one
               of the keys to financial persuasion is to strategically incorporate emotion and limit
               its duration.
Too much smiling in a sales pitch could kill the deal - EurekAlertApril 30, 2019 Spending too much time exuding joy is one of the fastest ways to lose a potential
               investor. A new study published in the Academy of Management Journal concludes one
               of the keys to financial persuasion is to strategically incorporate emotion and limit
               its duration.
Final Presentations of ASA Class Features Stock Pitches to Investors and AlumniApril 29, 2019 After the stock pitches were methodically presented and all the difficult and sometimes
               confrontational questions were asked – creating an atmosphere of student angst and
               investor hubris – it was all Kumbaya at the final presentations of the Applied Securities
               Analysis class earlier this month.
2019 Foreign Transaction Fee Survey - Wallet HubApril 29, 2019 Most people don’t pay attention to the fine points of bank disclosures. Banks probably
               also don’t want you to notice these charges.
University Of South Florida And Tampa Bay Lightning Are Flourishing Together - ForbesApril 28, 2019 In a corner by the door to Joe Hice’s office is an autographed stick of former Tampa
               Bay Lightning great Vinny Lecavalier. The stick is not visible when the University
               of South Florida marketing director’s door is open, which it always is in a figurative
               sense and quite often literally.
PitchLyst exclusive: What entrepreneurs need to know about joy - CatalystApril 25, 2019 When you smile and how much you smile can impact the success of your quest for funding
               or for customers.
Pitching Your Entrepreneurial Idea to get Investors Interested? Know When to be Enthusiastic,
                     When to Rein it InApril 24, 2019 Picture this: You’ve come up with a viable idea that is ready for the marketplace
               and you’re pitching your idea to potential investors or customers who need to be talked
               into backing your venture.
Guest Lecturer Greg Celestan Tells Honors Biz Class the Importance of Failure on the
                     Path to SuccessApril 24, 2019 "How many of you are in advertising or marketing?” asked Greg Celestan, during a
               recent guest lecture in a Dean’s Speakers Series class. More than half raised their
               hands.
USF dean shares tips for successful negotiations - The Laker / Lutz NewsApril 24, 2019 When it comes to negotiations, there are two basic truths. One, everyone negotiates.
               And, two, everything is negotiable. At least that’s how Moez Limayem, dean of the
               University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business, sees it.
BankUnited, Florida SBDC to Offer Quick Start Series for Small Business Owners - SRQApril 22, 2019 BankUnited is sponsoring the Quick Start Series for small business owners in Sarasota,
               in collaboration with the Florida SBDC at University of South Florida, beginning April
               29.
5 Tech Markets Emerging In Unexpected Places - BIsnowApril 21, 2019 ReliaQuest, a cybersecurity specialist that started 10 years ago with three employees
               and now has more than 300. Recently the company donated $1M to the University of South
               Florida for its cybersecurity program.
Stopping Food Cravings with a Whiff - WSLS 10 Virginia Today (NBC)April 16, 2019 Nearly 100% of young women in 70% of young men report having food cravings. There
               are some simple ways to not give in and wreck your diet. Researchers at the University
               of South Florida found simply smelling food may do the trick.
Pact inked with US varsity for dual degree course - The TribuneApril 11, 2019 Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has entered into a partnership with one of the leading
               universities in the US, University of South Florida (USF), to establish a programme
               of exchange and collaboration in terms of having dual degree programmes in B.Com and
               selective MBA courses.
Biz Student Mosheh Vann, and Brother, Eliiahu, a Recent Grad, Establish a Scholarship
                  FundApril 10, 2019 Mosheh and Eliiahu Vann can’t wait to pay it forward.
ISDS Assistant Professor Sagar Samtani Lands a National Science Foundation Grant to
                  Study the Dark WebApril 10, 2019 For those researchers in the Muma College of Business who seldom apply for grants
               from the National Science Foundation because, well, because they usually go to scientists
               and engineers, meet Sagar Samtani.
MercuryGate’s Wooden donates $5 million to university - American ShipperApril 9, 2019 The Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management & Sustainability at the University
               of South Florida will help “keep the United States at the forefront of this industry.”
USF Receives $5 Million Gift for Newly-Named Center for Supply Chain Management &
                  SustainabilityApril 8, 2019 A gift from MercuryGate cofounder Monica Wooden will name the center in her honor
USF receives $5M gift from MercuryGate co-founder - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 8, 2019 The gift will benefit the Muma College of Business.
USF expands and names Center for Supply Chain Management for $5 million donor Monica
                     Wooden - Tampa Bay TimesApril 8, 2019 Wooden co-founded and served as CEO of MercuryGate International, a transportation
               management software company that sold for more than $400 million in August.
USF Receives $5 Million Gift for Newly-Named Center for Supply Chain Management &
                     Sustainability - Florida TrendApril 8, 2019 The University of South Florida today announced a $5 million gift to the USF Foundation
               to benefit students and faculty in the Muma College of Business.
USF gifted funds for high-demand supply chain management education - Fox 13 NewsApril 8, 2019 A Bay Area woman who made a fortune getting things from one place to another wants
               to help others get into supply chain management.
Muma College of Business receives $5 million donation - The OracleApril 8, 2019 The donation will be used to build the Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management
               and Sustainability.
The unexpected link between music and food consumption - MDLinxApril 2, 2019 People make poorer food choices in noisier environments and healthier dining choices
               in quieter ones, according to the results of a recent study published in the Journal
               of the Academy of Marketing Science.
'Telling Stories With Data' Highlights Fifth Annual Sport & Entertainment Analytics
                     ConferenceMarch 28, 2019 Data is data. It’s cold. It’s hard. It’s unwavering in both its simplicity and complexity.
               It isn’t nuanced, it doesn’t make suggestions or give advice.
Alumnus Spotlight: Aitemir Yeskenov, Moving Up at Raymond James, Credits Connections
                  Made in Corporate Mentor ProgramMarch 28, 2019 Even though Aitemir Yeskenov was raised halfway around the world, he held on to a
               hope of one day earning success in America.
Einstein's Theory Meets the World of Finance - University of KentuckyMarch 21, 2019 Although it may seem like a stretch, Albert Einstein's theory of space and time may
               have a relevant connection to the world of finance.
USF ranks among universities with the best MBA programs - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 20, 2019 More 83 percent of the surveyed students ranked tuition price as their No. 1 consideration
               when choosing a program.
Florida Business Analytics Forum Draws Renowned Experts From Across the NationMarch 13, 2019 Experts in the fields of mobile analytics, artificial intelligence and dark web cybersecurity
               are coming from as far away as Massachusetts, Arizona and California to take part
               in the third-annual Florida Business Analytics Conference, hosted by the University
               of South Florida’s Muma College of Business in May.
Professor encourages all ages to search for passion - Fox 13 Tampa BayMarch 4, 2019 Renata Martins is on a path towards her future. The 20-year-old traveled from Brazil
               to study at the University of South Florida in Tampa in hopes of finding not only
               a profession but a passion. USF career counselor Doug Myne is helping her find her
               purpose.
Nick Vojnovic, President of Little Greek Fresh Grill, Enlightens EMBA Class on Career,
                  Life as Part of the Distinguished Speaker SeriesMarch 4, 2019 Nick Vojnovic’s lecture to the Executive MBA class was short on dry textbook language
               and long on home-spun advice based on his life and career.
WEIGH IT UP Three ways to turbo-charge your weight loss… from SNIFFING food to eating
                     half your partner’s meal - The SunMarch 2, 2019 Cutting calories is easier said than done but there are a few tips you can try to
               make it harder to over-eat
Could Netflix have happened in a place like Tampa Bay? - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 25, 2019 In an exclusive one-on-one conversation with the TBBJ, co-founder Marc Randolph said
               a Netflix could have come out of Tampa, but really only more recently.
Netflix cofounder Marc Randolph's key to success is confidence - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 22, 2019 Netflix’s big meeting with Blockbuster was a dud.
What Netflix co-founder Marc Randolph looks for in people who will come up with the
                     next big thing - CatalystFebruary 22, 2019 Got an idea for a new technology? Veteran entrepreneur Marc Randolph wants to hear
               about it.
Mentoring Monday - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 22, 2019 I have been very lucky in that I have had some excellent bosses and could give quite
               a few stories. One that stands our set me on a path that most people in the early
               stages of their careers don’t think about.
Netflix Cofounder Marc Randolph Offers Up a Primer to Entrepreneurs at the Muma College
                  of Business Thought Leader SeriesFebruary 21, 2019 The key is to have an idea, to have a tolerance for risk and to have confidence,
               he said. And don’t be afraid to make mistakes. They certainly will come.
Netflix Co-Founder Marc Randolph Talks Entrepreneurship At USF - WJCTFebruary 21, 2019 Marc Randolph shared lessons on how to become a successful entrepreneur with 700
               people at the University of South Florida Thursday. But first, the co-founder of the
               multi-billion dollar streaming service Netflix took a selfie.
Inaugural Open House at the Muma College of Business Draws High-Achieving High School
                     Seniors to Sample Life as a Biz MajorFebruary 19, 2019 Dozens of high-achieving high school students took to the USF campus on Presidents
               Day to find out what life would be like as a student in the Muma College of Business.
USF Produces More Fulbright Scholars Than Any Other U.S. University - WUSFFebruary 19, 2019 The University of South Florida is the 2018-19 top producer of Fulbright Scholars
               with 12 recipients, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.
USF leads nation in producing Fulbright Scholars - 83 Degrees MediaFebruary 19, 2019 USF led all the research institutions in the nation with 12 Fulbright Scholars (Florida
               State is second with nine) in the 2018-19 academic year.
TECO Chief Nancy Tower to be the Next Guest at Conversation with a CEOFebruary 13, 2019 Nancy Tower was instrumental in the 2015 acquisition of Tampa Electric Company by
               Emera, a Canadian conglomerate, in 2015. At the time, she was the chief corporate
               development officer for Emera, focusing on mergers and acquisitions.
University of South Florida Named the Nation's Top Producer of Fulbright Scholars - Florida TrendFebruary 12, 2019 The University of South Florida (USF) is the number one producer of Fulbright Scholars
               in the United States for 2018-2019, according to a new list released Monday.
Matt Mullarkey Awarded Core Fulbright Scholarship to Study in IrelandFebruary 11, 2019 Matt Mullarkey, instructor with the Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department
               and director of the DBA program at the University of South Florida’s Muma College
               of Business, has been awarded a Fulbright scholarship.
USF produces the most Fulbright scholars, report shows - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 11, 2019 This is the second time USF has received the top spot.
Faculty Spotlight: Sagar Samtani Dives Deep into the Dark Web to Find Answers, SolutionsFebruary 8, 2019 Think of cyberspace like it’s the ocean. On the surface, boaters enjoy the sunshine,
               waterskiing, sailing, swimming, or just floating about. Fifty feet below the surface
               is a different world.
ISDS Faculty Reaches New Heights in the Fall of 2018; Papers Published in Prestigious
                  Journals, Research Presented, Awards GivenFebruary 5, 2019 The New England Patriots may have grabbed all the attention this month but the fall
               of 2018 belongs to the professors of the Muma College of Business’ Information Systems
               and Decision Sciences Department.
Raymond James CEO speaks out on regulations, robo advising and leadership - CatalystFebruary 5, 2019 Regulatory pressures on financial service firms have not eased much under the Trump
               administration, said Paul Reilly, chairman and CEO of Raymond James Financial Inc.
USF Entrepreneur Turns Family Dream Into 'Yummi' Business - WUSFJanuary 30, 2019 When Adriana Florez’s family came to the U.S. from Colombia a little
               over a decade ago, each family member was only allowed to bring two bags. The night
               before they set off, she caught her mother packing an empanada maker. 
Two-minute trick to stop craving fatty food - NZ HeraldJanuary 29, 2019 Golden hot chips. Bubbling cheesy pizza. Crispy chicken. Heartwarming hamburgers.
               We know they're bad for us. But just one whiff of their smell is just so compelling.
Business school gets $3 million gift - The Crow's NestJanuary 28, 2019 The biggest benefactor in the university’s history has done it again. Retired entrepreneur
               Kate Tiedemann and her partner, Ellen Cotton, have pledged $3 million to endow the
               deanship of the business school, which was named for Tiedemann after she donated $10
               million in 2014.
Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation Lab, Largest of its Kind in the Eastern
                     U.S., Nears CompletionJanuary 25, 2019 The facility isn’t just for research. It is equipped to facilitate dozens of conversations
               in-person and on the phone as students participate in experiential learning.
Addicted to junk food? Sniffing pizza for 2 minutes will help curb your cravings for
                     sugar - Times NowJanuary 24, 2019 The study, published in the Journal of Marketing Research, found a surprising link
               between ‘ambient scents’ and food choices. This 2-minute trick will stop your cravings
               for junk.
The Surprising Way to Resist the Lure of Junk Food - TimeJanuary 22, 2019 Just about everyone has ordered a side of fries after catching an intoxicating whiff.
               But new research, which was published in the Journal of Marketing Research, says that
               basking in the scent of junk food for at least two minutes can actually help you make
               healthier food choices.
Forscher entwickeln einen 2-Minuten-Trick, nach dem ihr keine Lust mehr auf fettiges
                     Essen habt - Business Insider DeutschlandJanuary 22, 2019 Abnehmen wäre gar nicht so schwer — wenn nicht überall Verlockungen lauern würden.
Easy Trick to Stop Unhealthy Food Cravings Through Smell Revealed by Scientists - NewsweekJanuary 21, 2019 Resisting the urge to tuck into a pizza heavy with melted cheese can be a true test
               of willpower, but researchers believe just smelling an indulgent food for a couple
               of minutes can prevent us from caving.
How To Stop Your Food Cravings In Less Than 2 Minutes, According To Science - Men's HealthJanuary 21, 2019 This will help you step away from the pizza
This Two-Minute Trick Will Help You Keep Your Cravings Under Control - Women's HealthJanuary 21, 2019 But it won’t be for everyone.
Sniffing a burger or a pizza for two minutes could help you resist junk food - Metro UKJanuary 19, 2019 Apparently, sniffing a burger or a pizza for two minutes can stop the cravings for
               junk food.
Smelling Food Scents For More Than 2 Minutes Can Curb Your Cravings, Study Finds - CBS PhillyJanuary 18, 2019 Looking for a way to satisfy those high-calorie meal cravings? A new study finds
               if you breathe in the smell for longer than two minutes, you’re more likely to be
               content with fruit.
Smelling junk food for two minutes could convince you to eat less of it - NineJanuary 18, 2019 Today in tedious weight-control strategies: Sniffing your not-so-healthy favourite
               foods for two minutes could quell your cravings to eat them.
Science says smelling junk food can help you avoid craving it - AOLJanuary 17, 2019 Ever get a strong craving for a burger and fries? How about cookies and ice cream?
               Well, according to a new study, smelling your cravings could help deter you from actually
               eating them.
Addicted to chips? Making yourself SMELL a portion could help to curb cravings - Mirror UKJanuary 17, 2019 Forcing yourself to endure the smell for longer than two minutes can actually help
               you to curb the craving
Smelling high-calorie food for 2 minutes can help you eat less - Business StandardJanuary 17, 2019 Does a whiff of pizzas, burgers or sandwiches entice you, but you refrain from eating
               them due to the high-calories it contains? Take heart, smelling these for longer than
               two minutes will make you feel satiated, suggest researchers.
Can’t Resist The Smell Of Fries? Soak In The Scent For 2 Minutes To Curb The Craving,
                     Study Finds - Study FindsJanuary 17, 2019 Study finds that people are more likely to eat healthier when they’re exposed to
               the smell of unhealthy foods for long periods of time.
Paul Reilly, CEO of Raymond James Financial, Is the Next Conversation with a CEO Guest
                     in FebruaryJanuary 14, 2019 Paul Reilly’s business pedigree is impressive. He currently is chairman and chief
               executive officer of Raymond James Financial, leading a diversified financial services
               company with more than 7,800 financial advisors and, as of September, some $790 billion
               in client assets.
Muma College of Business to Host Open House for Incoming Business Major ProspectsJanuary 10, 2019 An innovative approach to the traditional open house will take place at the University
               of South Florida’s Muma College of Business in February.
USF entrepreneur grad program gets high ranking from Princeton Review - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 10, 2019 While there are changes ahead for the University of South Florida
               in 2019, the Tampa campus' Muma College of Business has started the year on a high
               note.
Move over Millennials; Generation Z to take over buying power, workforce - Fox13 Tampa BayJanuary 10, 2019 Plugged in and ready to head out into the workforce; Generation Z is about to become
               the purchasing powerhouse of the U.S. economy.
Slate of Speakers for the USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference SetJanuary 9, 2019 For the fifth consecutive year, the USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference
               Powered by Ticketmaster will present cutting-edge trends to its audience of marketers,
               business data analysts and sport/business students and this year’s conference is expected
               to continue to break new ground and raise the standard for excellence in academic
               conferences.
Dave Sobush, Director of Policy and Research with the Tampa Bay Partnership, Addresses
                     Executive MBA ClassJanuary 7, 2019 Dave Sobush, a true guru when it comes to economic drivers and indicators, painted
               a dissonant picture of the Tampa Bay region with some encouraging – and some disheartening
               – brush strokes, before an Executive MBA class earlier this month.
Philanthropy roundup: Wells Fargo, Bank United, Habitat for Humanity and more - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 4, 2019 With various initiatives and missions, Tampa Bay's philanthropic businesses are changing
               the community for the better.
The Nose May Know When It Comes To Food Choice - WUSFJanuary 3, 2019 If your New Year's resolution is cutting down on sweets and other foods that aren't
               good for you – you may want to follow your nose.
UO prof teaches that leadership should be exceptional and kind - University of OregonJanuary 2, 2019 Managing employees goes beyond growing a company’s bottom line, says Kate Zipay of
               the UO’s Lundquist College of Business. In her management course, she aims to foster
               a balance in which bosses build employee loyalty but also allow workers to embrace
               their outside lives.
Back to top
2018
Free air for tires is so popular at Wawa that it’s adding more pumps at its stores - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 31, 2018 Air may be free, but not at most of the machines where you pump it into your tires.
Ten Digital Marketing Predictions For 2019 - ForbesDecember 27, 2018 “The future is much like the present, only longer,” said baseball pitcher Dan Quisenberry.
               Here are some predictions for the future of marketing in the year 2019 and beyond
               from some thought leaders I polled, plus a few of my own prognostications.
USF Expert Doesn't See Second Professional Football League Succeeding In Tampa - WJCTDecember 27, 2018 A second professional football league is supposed to come to Tampa in 2020. But one
               local sports marketing expert says its likelihood of success isn’t high.
2018: A Year in ReviewDecember 21, 2018 Two-thousand-eighteen, or twenty-eighteen, or as most know it, 2018, has come and
               just about gone and the end of the last month is the right time to reflect on what
               we’ve achieved at the Muma College of Business over the past 12 months.
Holiday sales hold strong - Herald TribuneDecember 21, 2018 When it comes to retail, change one thing ever-so-slightly and you’re in for a vastly
               different experience than you thought you were. And you might as well strap in, because
               a lot of those things will end up being out of your control anyway.
University of South Florida Marketing Professor Mark Bender, PhD Discusses Digital
                     Marketing for Digital Platforms & Beyond - MarketScaleDecember 18, 2018 Traditional marketing has been around since products needed selling, and is something
               that continues to evolve as we navigate through the digital era. With the use of digital
               devices amongst consumers increasing, businesses more than ever must adapt to this
               changing landscape, and insert themselves where consumers are finding their information.
Limayem’s vision at USF is a business college with 100 percent job placement - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 14, 2018 USF Muma College of Business Dean Moez Limayem has worked to seed the faculty with
               seasoned business executives who can share real world experiences and mentoring.
Sub chain CEO: 'I'll clean the worst restrooms' - Florida Business ObserverDecember 14, 2018 Though some see the restaurant business as an entry level job, Don Fox has made it
               a 44-year career. Starting as a dishwasher at a small local New Jersey restaurant
               called the Godfather when he was 16, Fox says he put his head down and worked hard
               “because you never know how that might benefit you.”
USF, Partnership identify what businesses can do to improve Tampa's economy in new
                     reports - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 13, 2018 The USF's Muma College of Business and Tampa Bay Partnership think they may have
               some answers to Tampa's economic issues.
Tampa Bay Partnership study shows lag in job growth, pay and transit - FlaPolDecember 12, 2018 The Tampa Bay Partnership’s 2019 Regional Competitiveness Report shows the Tampa
               Bay region has room for improvement in several areas — some surprising, others not
               so much.
Muma College of Business Profs, Grad Students Provide Research for the State of the
                     RegionDecember 12, 2018 An exhaustive survey of local tweets over the past two months shows people just love
               downtown Tampa, but hate the traffic getting there. The findings also included facts
               such as most of the people in the region work in Hillsborough County, but live elsewhere
               and that interest in USF spikes each fall, maybe because of football or maybe because
               of fall is the beginning of the academic year.
USF deans get ahead of consolidation with a plan for three business schools - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 7, 2018 The USF deans see it as an opportunity to work together and share resources.
Student Spotlight: Annika Abell, Marketing Doctoral Student, Heading to University
                  of Tennessee to Teach, Conduct ResearchDecember 5, 2018 With a background that includes founding a digital marketing agency and more than
               a decade as a graphic designer in Germany, Annika Abell left it all behind for academia.
The Four Letters Transforming The Municipal Bond Market And Government Finance - ForbesDecember 4, 2018 While at a public finance conference recently, a colleague from another firm gave
               me some good-natured chiding about my comments regarding the need for standardized
               digital disclosure for the municipal bond market.
Food Scent Study - WTVT-Tampa (FOX)November 30, 2018 A new study by a usf professor or looked at how food scent can directly satisfy the
               belly
102 schools for financial planning: Where are they located? - FinancialPlanning.comNovember 30, 2018 As the academic world of financial planning continues to grow, prospective planners
               have an array of choices to make when selecting a program. Advisors looking to hire
               new college-educated recruits also have a wider base to draw from.
Rankings: Tampa Bay second-best in job growth, second-worst in road safety - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 27, 2018 When local business leaders unveiled a study comparing Tampa Bay to 19 other areas
               across the country, the results were a mix of good news and bad news.
In her own words: A Golden Bull from India tells her story - 83 Degrees MediaNovember 27, 2018 Nandini Agarwal is two years away from graduation, but already she is working to
               better the lives of women in her native India.
Leading generational change: 1 in 4 at USF is first in family to attend college - 83 Degrees MediaNovember 27, 2018 Almost every college student faces a number of challenges from homesickness to juggling
               finances to meeting deadlines to balancing time for work and play to figuring out
               what they want to do in life.
Co-founder of Netflix will headline spring semester Thought Leader Series - The OracleNovember 26, 2018 Netflix co-founder and former CEO Marc Randolph will speak in the Marshall Student
               Center (MSC) Oval Theater on Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. as the second lecturer in the Muma
               College of Business Thought Leader Series.
62 Who Knew - Episode 18 - YouTubeNovember 26, 2018 Our guest is Dr. Laura Mattia , Ph.D., MBA, CFP and is the Raymond James Personal
               Financial Planning Program Director at University of South Florida, where she started
               a brand new degree program for students interested in working as a Personal Financial
               Planner and is the author of “Gender On Wall Street: Uncovering Opportunities for
               Women in Financial Services”.
Bill Sutton Retires, Students and Grads of the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management
                     Program Sound OffNovember 23, 2018 Commonly known as “Doc” to the students enrolled in the Vinik Sport & Entertainment
               Management program, Bill Sutton is the only director the program has ever had.
Marc Randolph, Cofounder of Netflix, to be the Muma College of Business Thought Leader
                  Series Speaker in FebruaryNovember 15, 2018 Marc Randolph knows how to put ideas into plans that result in reality. The cofounder
               of Netflix, and numerous other entrepreneurial endeavors, gives this advice to people
               with bright ideas: Run with them. Don’t try to be perfect. Change things along the
               way.
USF, UT land on Princeton Review's Best Business Schools list - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 11, 2018 USF's Muma College of Business was placed among the top Best Business Schools and
               Best Business Schools in the southeast. It has been on the list for 11 straight years.
USF Center for Supply Chain Management and Sustainability Poised to Take the Lead
                     in Making Florida a Global Trade HubNovember 9, 2018 The Sunshine State typically has been a Mecca for tourists, those seeking warmth
               in the winter, theme parks for the kids, maybe a cruise to the Caribbean. Tourism,
               for decades, has been the one of the state’s main money-maker. But now, a new industry
               may be taking root: global commerce.
ISDS Associate Professor Terry Sincich Retiring after 30 Years of Teaching and Researching
                     StatisticsNovember 6, 2018 For those who think studying statistics is the most difficult, maddening, worthless
               part of a college education, consider Terry Sincich’s life as a consultant.
A Major Obstacle Facing New Entrepreneurs: Student DebtOctober 31, 2018 Entrepreneurial-minded students focused on starting their own businesses upon graduation
               – after their ideas have been refined and methods perfected – may find something out
               there they had not fully considered; something that could will doom them to failure.
Fintech CEO Credits Partnership With Biz Students in Creating Multi-Billion-Dollar
                  BusinessOctober 31, 2018 Scott Riley, founder and CEO of Fintech, was doing just fine handling the transactions
               between alcohol makers and retailers, through a system to regularly pay the bills
               for package stores, restaurants and bars and collect a fee for the service.
USF Teams With ReliaQuest On $1M Cybersecurity Labs - WUSFOctober 31, 2018 Thirty-five students are members of the first group of a four-week intensive training
               program launched earlier this month called the ReliaQuest Cybersecurity Labs at the
               USF Muma College of Business.
USF Teams With ReliaQuest On $1M Cybersecurity Labs - WJCTOctober 31, 2018 The University of South Florida Muma College of Business is home to a new laboratory
               that doesn’t consist of beakers and microscopes. Instead, it’s a high-tech virtual
               lab where students are learning the latest techniques in the fast-evolving, fast-growing
               world of cybersecurity.
Episode 7: Part II - Kerry Myers - CrimeversationOctober 31, 2018 Following our second death penalty case, our expert today is Kerry Myers from the
               University of South Florida. Myers played a pivotal role in the Timothy McVeigh case
               and testified against him at trial.
Ben & Jerry's launches Donald Trump-inspired ice cream flavor, Pecan Resist - USA TodayOctober 30, 2018 Ben & Jerry’s is launching a new flavor, Pecan Resist, which the company made to
               promote activism in the U.S.
US varsity raises stipend for Kalam PhD fellowship - Indian ExpressOctober 29, 2018 The fellowship has so far been awarded to Avijit Sengupta of IIT Bombay, Veena Subramanian
               of the Indian Institute of Sciences in Bangalore. Both of them are currently pursuing
               their PhD researches at the university. The deadline for applications for the 2019
               fellowship is March 1, 2019
Five on the 40 Under 40 List Compiled by the Tampa Bay Business Journal Are Affiliated
                     With the Muma College of BusinessOctober 25, 2018 Brian Kornfeld’s mind is buffeted by the winds of innovation, stoking his passion
               to help start-ups and entrepreneurs navigate early-state ecosystems and to connect
               entrepreneurs through summit events. This, he said, “enables me to continue my mission.”
Bill Sutton retiring from USF post at end of school year - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 19, 2018 Longtime sports business professor and mentor Bill Sutton today will announce that
               he is retiring from his post as director of USF’s Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management
               Program at the end of the school year.
Sport & Entertainment Management Lecture Series Takes A Glimpse Into the Future of
                  Sports MarketingOctober 18, 2018 The merging of sports and marketing has always been a marriage of necessity, of finding
               innovative ways to fill seats or to tune in on television. But with the digital revolution
               emerging at such a fast pace, the way sports is presented and how its appeal is molded
               is as important as ever.
In cord-cutting era, what’s the future of Facebook and live sports programming? - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 18, 2018 One of the biggest, most interesting questions about the future of sports is this:
               How will we watch games in five or 10 years?
Can Restaurants Manipulate What We Order? - BYU RadioOctober 16, 2018 Next time you are out to eat and suddenly decide to order a greasy burger instead
               of the salad you’d planned on, you might want to stop and listen for a moment.
DBA Endowment to be Named for Program Founder, T. Grandon GillOctober 15, 2018 Five people involved in the Muma College of Business Doctor of Business Administrative
               program have given a total of $150,000 to start an endowment that, once fully funded,
               will be named for the program's founder and current academic director, T. Grandon
               Gill.
Florida SBDC at USF Making Emergency Bridge Loans Available for Businesses Impacted
                  by Red TideOctober 12, 2018 The year-long scourge of red tide along the Southwest Florida coast has killed millions
               of fish and other marine life and can cause respiratory problems for beach goers.
               The bloom has plagued areas as far north as Pinellas County.
Scott Morrison Takes Over as Muma College of Business Senior Director of DevelopmentOctober 12, 2018 Scott Morrison, a veteran of business development with extensive experience in partnership
               management both in the Tampa Bay area and New York City, started this month as the
               new senior director of development.
‘Tampa is on fire’: Where Vincent Jackson sees opportunities in the bay area - CatalystOctober 11, 2018 There are pockets of real estate opportunity all over the Tampa Bay area, says Vincent
               Jackson, CEO and co-founder of CTV Capital and former Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver.
Restaurants rise to fame over Instagramable food - CNNOctober 10, 2018 In early April, my younger sister and I waited for about 45 minutes in the rain to
               eat at Black Tap in midtown Manhattan. The line extended along the block, and both
               tourists and locals stood with umbrellas, buzzing about the trendy restaurant's popular
               "Crazy Shakes."
ReliaQuest gift to USF funds innovative cybersecurity training program - 83 Degrees MediaOctober 9, 2018 The program, being funded by a $1 million donation from ReliaQuest, will train USF
               students from any degree program, at any level of instruction, on any USF campus.
               The course began Friday, October 5, and will last for four consecutive weeks on a
               not-for-credit basis.
Muma College of Business Lands its First World Class Scholar: Sunil MithasOctober 5, 2018 The quiet dignity and grace that surrounds Sunil Mithas when he engages a room full
               of intellectuals is something to see. The academic/researcher/consultant/author speaks
               in hushed tones amid humility and intensity.
Eileen Rodriguez Named 2018 Pathways Award WinnerOctober 5, 2018 Eileen Rodriguez, regional director of the Florida SBDC at USF, was awarded the 2018
               Pathways Award earlier this month by the University of South Florida Latin Community
               Advisory Committee and the Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity.
Faculty Spotlight: Erwin Danneels Externing with M Ventures to Define, Measure Strategic
                     Returns on InvestmentsOctober 5, 2018 M Ventures invests in innovative start-up companies. Its portfolio consists of companies
               forging cutting-edge developments in pharmaceuticals, life sciences and performance
               materials; the kind of entrepreneurial ideas that have the potential to change the
               world, or at least make it better.
USF launches new cybersecurity program - Fox 13 NewsOctober 5, 2018 USF's College Of Business and Tampa-based cybersecurity company ReliaQuest, kicked
               off a partnership that could launch students into a well-paid career.
Marketing Professor Diana Hechavarria Helps Everyone Succeed in EntrepreneurshipsOctober 4, 2018 Making successful entrepreneurs out of everyone, including women, minorities and
               the underprivileged, is what gets Diana Hechavarria stoked.
IT firm pledges $1M to cybersecurity education - Business ObserverOctober 3, 2018 ReliaQuest, a Tampa-based IT security firm, has committed to a $1 million gift, payable
               over five years, to the University of South Florida to fund the ReliaQuest Cybersecurity
               Labs at the USF Muma College of Business.
Cybersecurity firm donates $1 million for new USF program - Florida PoliticsOctober 3, 2018 Security model management company ReliaQuest is committing $1 million to the University
               of South Florida for cybersecurity labs at the school's Muma College of Business.
USF/ReliaQuest Partnership Aims to Fill the Talent Gap in the Emerging Cybersecurity
                     FieldOctober 2, 2018 Cybersecurity technology and services provider ReliaQuest is familiar with the University
               of South Florida, through involvement with student interns, faculty and researchers;
               and now the company has agreed to a $1 million commitment over five years to pay for
               a first-of-its kind, cybersecurity-certificated program to draw more students into
               the emerging field.
$1 Million Gift to Help Cybersecurity Education - WFTS ABC Action NewsOctober 2, 2018 USF is getting a boost to prepare the next line of defense.
ReliaQuest Gifts $1m to Build Cyber Lab at USF - InfoSecurityOctober 2, 2018 The University of South Florida (USF) has received a $1m gift to fund a cybersecurity
               lab at the USF Muma College of Business. With the goal of making Florida the "Cyber
               State," ReliaQuest extended the gift to USF, payable over the course of five years.
ReliaQuest commits $1 million to prepare students for careers in cybersecurity at
                     the University of South Florida Muma College of Business - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 2, 2018 The first-of-its-kind initiative will give real-world experience to students interested
               in cybersecurity careers; first participants begin learning on Oct. 5
Cybersecurity firm ReliaQuest donates $1M to USF for cyber training program - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 2, 2018 Tampa cybersecurity company ReliaQuest is donating $1 million to the University of
               South Florida for the "ReliaQuest Cybersecurity Labs." The facility, which will be
               housed at the USF Muma College of Business, will be used to train students in cybersecurity
               with hands-on programs.
ReliaQuest commits $1 million to prepare students for careers in cybersecurity at
                     the University of South Florida Muma College of Business - Markets InsiderOctober 2, 2018 ReliaQuest, the leader in security model management, today announced that it has
               committed a $1 million gift to the University of South Florida to fund the ReliaQuest
               Cybersecurity Labs at the USF Muma College of Business.
Cybersecurity firm ReliaQuest donates $1M to USF for cyber training program - TBO.comOctober 2, 2018 Tampa cybersecurity company ReliaQuest is donating $1 million to the University of
               South Florida for the "ReliaQuest Cybersecurity Labs." The facility, which will be
               housed at the USF Muma College of Business, will be used to train students in cybersecurity
               with hands-on programs.
ReliaQuest commits $1 million to prepare students for careers in cybersecurity at
                     the University of South Florida Muma College of Business - Market WatchOctober 2, 2018 The first-of-its-kind initiative will give real-world experience to students interested
               in cybersecurity careers; first participants begin learning on Oct. 5
ReliaQuest commits $1 million to prepare students for careers in cybersecurity at
                     the University of South Florida Muma College of Business - The Virginian-PilotOctober 2, 2018 ReliaQuest, the leader in security model management, today announced that it has
               committed a $1 million gift to the University of South Florida to fund the ReliaQuest
               Cybersecurity Labs at the USF Muma College of Business.
ReliaQuest commits $1 million to prepare students for careers in cybersecurity at
                     the University of South Florida Muma College of Business - PR NewswireOctober 2, 2018 The first-of-its-kind initiative will give real-world experience to students interested
               in cybersecurity careers; first participants begin learning on Oct. 5
Fake news, the DNA of tech firms: The big fight against fake news - The Asian AgeOctober 1, 2018 Technology companies like Google, Twitter, Facebook and Microsoft are also gearing
               up to fight the menace of fake news.
Fake news, the DNA of tech firms: The big fight against fake news - Deccan ChronicleSeptember 30, 2018 Technology companies like Google, Twitter, Facebook and Microsoft
               are also gearing up to fight the menace of fake news.
Career change - can you afford it? - ABC.netSeptember 29, 2018 Have you dreamed of changing your career? For most of us, that's where it ends, we
               don't take the next step and actually begin to change careers.
From Pot Scrubber to CEO of Firehouse Subs, Don Fox is the Guest of Honor at the November
                     Conversation with a CEOSeptember 27, 2018 Don Fox, the chief executive officer of Firehouse Subs who started his restaurant
               career in the kitchen scrubbing pots and pans, is not stingy about sharing the wealth.
Graduates from the Muma College of Business All to be Citizen Data Scientists in Groundbreaking
                     ProgramSeptember 27, 2018 With a stated emphasis on analytics and creativity in the world of commerce, the
               Muma College of Business has implemented a program that will bestow the certified
               title of Citizen Data Scientist on each and every undergraduate of the college.
Women in Sports and Events launches Tampa Bay chapter - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 13, 2018 Adding to a growing list of more than 19 chapters across the North America — some
               which are in the works — the Tampa Bay chapter of WISE will provide educational programming
               and national resources for local sports and events professionals to bring to the Bay
               area.
Speed Dating for Researchers Proves Successful for Exchange of IdeasSeptember 11, 2018 Speed dating for those looking significant others and speed dating for researchers
               looking for answers have a lot in common. Both seek collaboration through engaging
               pitches of what each has to offer.
Biz Researchers Paving the Way for Groundbreaking Video Engagement CorporationSeptember 11, 2018 Atlanta-based onQ is a company that knows how to engage. Its cutting-edge model of
               real-time video engagement is just getting started in the interactive video world.
Stonehill Chief Executive Officer Selected by the University of South Florida to Teach
                     Design Thinking - EIN PressWireSeptember 11, 2018 Stonehill announced today that its Chief Executive Officer, Doug Pace, has been selected
               by University of South Florida to teach a class on Design Thinking.
Fall Conversation with a CEO Guest: Vincent Jackson, Pro Football Player/EntrepreneurSeptember 6, 2018 After 12 seasons cutting pass patterns in the NFL, including three Pro Bowls, Vincent
               Jackson's career as a pro-football player is in the rear-view mirror.
Are You Playing The Right Game? - ForbesSeptember 6, 2018 As a youth, I viewed chess grand champions like Garry Kasparov as big as the stars
               of today.. LeBron James, Cristiano Ronaldo, and Serena Williams.
Young USF Business Student Nandini Agarwal Named to the Top of the Class - IndiaWestSeptember 1, 2018 An Indian American student at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business,
               Nandini Agarwal, wasn't certain what the future would entail when she and her family
               moved from India – her native country – to the U.S. in 2015.
How to Learn Soft Skills in Business Settings: ImproviseAugust 30, 2018 The group of 20, standing in a circle, started out with a clapping exercise in which
               they faced the person next to them and clapped together. Most started out watching
               their own hands and there wasn't much unison.
Alumnus Spotlight: Larry Nicholson's Rise at Work Reflects What He Learned in the
                     Executive MBA ProgramAugust 30, 2018 Though Larry Nicholson graduated from the Executive MBA program at the Muma College
               of Business two years ago, he still collaborates with former classmates to find solutions
               in his career.
Can You Afford to Change Your Career? - Harvard Business ReviewAugust 29, 2018 Who wouldn't want a meaningful career and better balance between work and home? For
               many of us, it's finances that keep us from making a career change.
Gabriel Rodriguez, High-Achieving Business Student Focused on a Career in MedicineAugust 29, 2018 Gabriel Rodriguez grew up in a family of doctors and his dream always has been to
               follow the family tradition. Although he knows his future lies in medicine, he wound
               up majoring in finance.
What Stops Women in Finance? It's Culture, Culture, Culture - WealthManagement.comAugust 28, 2018 All the well-meaning policies the industry rolls out to promote women will be ineffective
               until the cultural perceptions of the industry change.
Alumna Spotlight: Rhea Law, Named USF Alumni Association 2018 Distinguished Alumna,
                     Traces Beginnings of Success to A USF Business DegreeAugust 28, 2018 Rhea Law has found a way to fit a week's worth of work into a single day and she's
               been doing it for four decades. Reflected in her pages-long resume are gubernatorial
               appointments, community and military involvement and accolades from near and far.
Alumnus Spotlight: Dave Hilfman, Named USF Alumni Association 2018 Distinguished Alumnus,
                     Soon to Retire from Commercial Airline IndustryAugust 28, 2018 
2018 Scholarship Luncheon: A Mix of Donors and Recipients, Joy and TearsAugust 24, 2018 At the annual Muma College of Business Scholarship Luncheon, at which $600,000 was
               awarded to 300 deserving, high-achieving students, the keynote speaker – a student
               herself – is both a recipient and a donor of scholarship money.
ZAP Interns Pitch Marketing Plan at McDonald's Global HeadquartersAugust 21, 2018 After pitching an impressive marketing plan to an advertising company in South Florida,
               a couple of USF interns found themselves on an airplane to Chicago the next day to
               deliver the same pitch to executives at McDonald's.
Student Spotlight: Zavier Garcia, Full-Time Student, Full-Time Employee, Full-Time
                     Husband and Father of Twins, Sergeant in the Florida National GuardAugust 14, 2018 When Zavier Garcia gets a little time off, he plays Mario Bros. video games with
               his 5-year old son, Isaiah, or is a guest of honor at a tea party thrown by Isaiah's
               twin sister, Hannah.
Survey of Bulls to Business Students: The Program WorksAugust 13, 2018 The month-long program that kick-started the college careers of 31 select students
               is over and judging by the comments the students gave in a survey, the inaugural initiative
               accomplished its goals.
Subliminal serenades: How grocery store playlists affect purchases - FoodDiveAugust 10, 2018 "High-volume music is more exciting and makes you physically more excited, less inhibited
               and more likely to choose something indulgent,"
Heavy Hitters in the World of Sports Slated for the Annual Vinik Sport & Entertainment
                     Management Program Lecture SeriesAugust 10, 2018 Three front-office superstars in the business of sports are slated to share the stage
               at the annual Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Lecture Series this year.
Cybersecurity sector bear hugs Tampa region - Business ObserverAugust 10, 2018 With business and so many other aspects of our daily lives increasingly moving online
               and into the cloud, it's never been a better time to be part of the cybersecurity industry.
What's the ideal soundtrack for grocery shopping? - RetailWireAugust 9, 2018 A new study from the University of South Florida finds that loud music in a restaurant
               or grocery store leads to more unhealthy food choices, while quieter music leads to
               heathier ones.
The Table Is Set for the Florida Blue Health Innovation Pitch Competition, Seven from
                     USF Among the FinalistsAugust 9, 2018 The table is set at the 2018 Florida Blue Health Innovation Pitch Competition.
Overcoming Adversity Is Only Part of What Ashley Reeves DoesAugust 9, 2018 When it comes to a good sales pitch, Ashley Reeves knows how to make a lasting impression.
               From her work both inside and outside of the classroom, she prides herself on making
               the best out the unexpected.
USF study says music can play a role in food selection - Fox 13August 1, 2018 The foods you choose may not have much to do with what you see, but what you hear.
Breaking New Ground: Joint Special Operations University Taps Muma College of Business
                     Educators in First-of-a-Kind WorkshopAugust 1, 2018 Over the course of human history, situations that have arisen around the world that
               called for military intervention always were handled, more or less, in one simple
               way: Identify the adversary and eliminate the adversary.
Alumni Spotlight: Demelza Hays: Researcher on the Cutting Edge of CryptocurrenciesAugust 1, 2018 Just six years after walking across the Sun Dome stage to receive a bachelor's degree,
               she travels the world, manages a cryptocurrency fund for an investment firm in Liechtenstein
               and is pursuing a PhD in business economics at the University of Liechtenstein.
Kicking Off an Innovative Admissions Program, the First Bulls to Business Students
                     ArriveJuly 20, 2018 Dancing, party tunes, snacks and balloons. The sounds of squeaky moving cart wheels,
               dinging elevators and new students timidly introducing themselves one-by-one echoed
               in the halls, as proud parents blamed teary goodbyes on some sweat in their eyes.
Faculty Spotlight: Alan Hevner, USF Distinguished Professor, Honored at Purdue UniversityJuly 16, 2018 No stranger to awards and accolades for his life's work, Muma College of Business
               Information Systems and Decision Sciences Professor Alan Hevner traveled to West Lafayette,
               Indiana, recently to what may be the most poignant recognition he has received over
               his long, research-rich career.
Alumni Spotlight: Ann Dzuranin, An Innovative EducatorJuly 16, 2018 For Ann Dzuranin, being a Certified Public Accountant, doing taxes and taking care
               of the books for businesses and corporations for a decade-and-a-half wasn't quite
               enough.
New survey shows executives heavily underestimate cybersecurity threats - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 3, 2018 "Executives aren't aware of the threats that could jeopardize their assets," Limayem
               said. "This is why we're trying to bridge that gap, so that IT professionals and businessmen
               and women speak the same language in addressing these types of threats."
Loud music and food - The Telegraph IndiaJune 27, 2018 Here's evidence that loud background music in restaurants affects food choices -
               and not in a good way. Behavioural scientists who ran a series of lab studies and
               field experiments found that participants selected more unhealthy items like red meat
               and cake when the ambient music was loud.
Tampa Bay job centers gave away millions in gift cards and boosted hiring totals - Tampa Bay TimesJune 21, 2018 Tampa Bay's two largest job placement agencies handed out $6 million in Visa and
               gas cards since 2014 – all paid for with public tax dollars – and a share of that
               money went to people who didn't use the centers to find work and never had to account
               for how they spent it.
USF Study Shows Music Volume Affects Consumers' Choices - WJCTJune 19, 2018 If you've ever dined out and wondered why you chose a cheeseburger over the salad,
               the choice may not have entirely been your own -- you might have been influenced by
               the music the restaurant was playing.
Music - Food Choices - WUSFJune 19, 2018 A USF marketing professor has published some research that's getting media attention
               worldwide. His study found that both the kind of music being played at a restaurant
               or supermarket, as well as the volume, can affect whether people make healthy food
               choices or not.
Beauty is truly in the eye of the beholder at PGA Tour events - SportsBusiness JournalJune 18, 2018 I have been blessed to work on my bucket list this year and I have attended both
               the Masters and the Players Championship. As the Masters is very popular, I have been
               besieged with questions that affirm or deny what people have heard.
The stock market suffers from seasonal affective disorder too - MarketWatchJune 17, 2018 Seasonal variations in investors' moods impact stock market returns, according to
               new studies
The stock market suffers from seasonal affective disorder, too - New York PostJune 14, 2018 Economist John Maynard Keynes said that "animal spirits" move the markets, but maybe
               the sun and the clouds have something to do with it, too.
Alumna Spotlight: Maithilee Pagay Accepted into the London School of Economics and
                     Political ScienceJune 12, 2018 Maithilee Pagay has a passion for business and is eager to get into the investment
               banking business. But the finance major who graduated in May will put that off for
               a while. She just got word she has been accepted into the graduate program at the
               prestigious London School of Economics and Political Science. There, she plans to
               study for a master's degree in accounting.
USF's Vinik Sports and Entertainment Management program best in state, fourth in the
                     world - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 8, 2018 It's the third honor the school has collected this week.
USF Sport Management Program Ranks 4th in World - WFTS Tampa BayJune 8, 2018 A big honor for USF's Sport & Entertainment Management program now the top of its
               kind in Florida
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Ranked Fourth Best in the WorldJune 7, 2018 The Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program jumped 15 spots in a newly released
               ranking by SportBusiness International and was named in the most recent issue as the
               fourth best program in the world and the top program in Florida.
Amazing Suncoast Woman - Laura Mattia - WWSB My SuncoastJune 5, 2018 "We are creating the new breed of financial planners, planners that will be more
               for the consumer, the client, as opposed to just making a lot of money," said Mattia.
'I'll Have the Cake.' The Music Made Me Do It. - New York TimesMay 31, 2018 People were more likely to pick unhealthful or calorie-laden items when the ambient
               music was loud, and healthful items when softer music was played.
Loud restaurant music, junk food consumption go together - StarTribuneMay 31, 2018 In noisy restaurants, patrons order more unhealthful foods.
Noisy restaurants affect how you order — and not in a good way - LivestrongMay 31, 2018 Watching your weight? You may want to stick to quieter restaurants. According to
               a new study, you're more likely to order something unhealthy when you're eating in
               a noisy venue compared to one that's more chill.
Innovative Mini-mester Course Explores the Economics of Women and Men at WorkMay 31, 2018 The pay gap disparity in the workplace has been a source of contention and an issue
               that has received considerable news coverage in recent years.
Loud music at restaurants could make you order burgers over salads, study says - Financial ReviewMay 30, 2018 Noisy restaurants are a source of perennial complaints, but it's not just diners'
               ears that are affected - it's their waistlines, too.
Study: Loud Music in Restaurants Appears to Influence Food Choice - Fox DetroitMay 30, 2018 A new study published in Marketing and Science found the louder the music, the more
               likely people are to order unhealthy meals.
Why a noisy restaurant makes you crave a cheeseburger over a salad - Sunday TimesMay 29, 2018 Diners take note: If you're eating at a restaurant that's playing loud music, you
               may be more prone to making unhealthy food choices.
Loud music may steer you toward unhealthy food - The TakeoutMay 29, 2018 The link between sound and hunger may appear tenuous, but researchers in Stockholm,
               Sweden, led by and led by Dipayan Biswas of the University Of South Florida Muma College
               Of Business in the U.S., have made a surprising find.
How music impacts what you order at a restaurant - Nine.com.auMay 29, 2018 It's a factor that's often overlooked when you're dining out. But it turns out it
               has a major impact on what you order.
Loud music at restaurants could be leading you to order burgers over salads, study
                     says - Washington PostMay 29, 2018 Noisy restaurants are a source of perennial complaints, but it's not just diners'
               ears that are affected — it's their waistlines, too. A new study published in the
               Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science has found that if ambient music played
               in a restaurant is louder, the customers are more susceptible to choose unhealthful
               foods.
Student Spotlight: Yeseul Kim Awarded Prestigious USF Presidential Doctoral FellowshipMay 29, 2018 The Muma College of Business, for the first time, will be home to a University of
               South Florida Presidential Doctoral Fellow, considered the most prestigious honor
               awarded to doctoral candidates university-wide each year.
New Research on Music Volume at Restaurants - ABC DallasMay 29, 2018 The louder the music, the more likely to order cherry pie.
Sales volume: music influences food choices - CosmosMay 28, 2018 Study shows loud and quiet soundtracks influence healthy meal picks.
Restaurant music can influence what people order - Business StandardMay 28, 2018 Ambient music in restaurants can influence what food people choose, say scientists
               including one of Indian origin who have found that louder environments inspire diners
               to crave greasy cheeseburgers and fries instead of making healthier choices like salads.
Music Influences Our Food Choices, New Research Finds - The Talking DemocratMay 28, 2018 According to a new study, music can influence our food choices. In restaurants and
               supermarkets, the higher the volume, the more inclined we are at choosing junk food
               over healthier options.
Why music volume matters when trying to lose weight - Medical News TodayMay 28, 2018 It is commonplace for cafés and restaurants to play music while you eat. A new study
               asks whether the volume of these tunes might impact how healthful our dietary choices
               are.
The volume of music in a restaurant can actually impact the food you order - National PostMay 28, 2018 A booming playlist can lead diners to make unhealthy restaurant choices, according
               to a new study
Restaurant music actually affects what you order, study finds - Earth.comMay 26, 2018 A new study has found that music volume has a significant impact on people's food
               choices, and when soft music is playing in the background of a restaurant, people
               prefer healthy options like salads.
Loud music may be to blame for why you order unhealthy food - SHEmazingMay 25, 2018 If you find yourself ordering cheeseburgers more than salads, well, maybe you're
               just going to restaurants where the volume's been turned up a bit too high.
How loud restaurants can lead to unhealthy eating choices - TODAY.comMay 25, 2018 Enjoying a meal over a little melodious clamor can be a wonderful part of dining
               out. But it turns out the volume of that tune may play a role in what we order — and
               it could be bad for our waistlines.
Music makes us happy, motivated, determined ... and hungry? - Tampa Bay TimesMay 24, 2018 Music is the ultimate mood setter. Faster beats gets us pumped up to work out. A
               slower rhythm can set a romantic mood or help one unwind at the end of a long day.
Noisy Restaurants Actually Influence How Diners Order, New Study Says - Food & WineMay 24, 2018 Increasing the volume in a restaurant can lead to unhealthy dining choices.
The music playing while you order could change what you choose to eat - NewsweekMay 24, 2018 Music can affect our brains in fascinating ways. Various studies have suggested,
               for example, that songs which feature fast beats may improve our workouts and that
               our favorite tracks can have a profound affect on our mood.
Cheeseburger or salad? How music volume impacts your decision - Science NewsMay 23, 2018 Music can be the ultimate mood setter. Faster beats ignite excitement, while slower
               songs help one relax. And that makes all the difference in what we order from restaurant
               menus.
Alumni Spotlight: Matt James Work At Zoo Miami Includes the Business of Animal CareMay 22, 2018 Caring and treating animals is part of the everyday challenges for a zoo keeper and
               bringing a six-ton elephant to Florida from 10,000 miles away presents a unique set
               of obstacles.
ZAP Beefs Up Student-Mentoring EffortsMay 22, 2018 The Zimmerman Advertising Program has ramped up its student-mentoring efforts to
               counsel younger students enrolled in the program that meshes advertising with the
               business of marketing.
ISDS and Straz Center partner to offer public speaking workshop to studentsMay 22, 2018 I never want you to give a speech again," Matthew Belopavlovich, theater department
               teacher of the Patel Conservatory at Straz Center for the Performing Arts, told a
               group of University of South Florida students at a recent public speaking workshop.
               "I want you to think of it as just a conversation."
Business analytics: USF forum highlights health, machine bias and more - 83Degrees MediaMay 22, 2018 The university brought in thought leaders who shared how they are using analytics
               to solve problems. The goal was to showcase their work and the work of USF researchers
               to the business community.
Full menu selling and other thoughts for ticket sales success - SportsBusiness JournalMay 21, 2018 I have long been a believer in full menu selling. I know this is contrary to what
               some of my industry friends and even my clients believe and practice, but in 2018
               I really don't see an alternative — and in fact I think it is a best practice.
Alumni Spotlight: Frank Yiannas Uses Blockchain to Makes Sure the Food on Your Table
                     is SafeMay 18, 2018 Keeping track of food that ends up on the tables of more than 260 million customers
               in 28 countries and making sure that food is untainted and just plain delicious is
               the job of Frank Yiannas, a USF alumnus who now is vice president of food safety at
               Walmart.
USF Football Coach Charlie Strong Addresses Accountants and Auditors at Annual Accounting
                     Circle ConferenceMay 18, 2018 Amid the presentations on Securities and Exchange Commission rules, federal tax reforms
               and cryptocurrencies, Charlie Strong stepped up to the podium and talked to a room
               full of accountants and auditors about team building and the importance of character
               and leadership.
Tampa crowds hear tale of two ideas: Diversity and data drive business success - Tampa Bay TimesMay 16, 2018 To grow an innovative and competitive economy — the model the Tampa Bay area is aiming
               for — companies need both inclusive teams and the smarts to turn massive amounts of
               data to their advantage.
Hundreds Hear About Blockchain, Artificial Intelligence and Data on the Cloud at the
                     Florida Business Analytics ForumMay 15, 2018 From disturbing biases of machine learning and artificial intelligence to the wonders
               of blockchain technology, about 365 business executives in information systems professionals
               were schooled Tuesday on the latest trends at the Florida Business Analytics Forum.
Florida Small Business Development Center at USF Hosts Annual Government ConferenceMay 9, 2018 "The whole purpose of the conference is to expose our small business owners to the
               possibility of doing business with the government – particularly the federal government,"
               said Eileen Rodriguez, regional director of the center.
The Florida Cup plans more wins for Orlando, despite other suitors - Orlando Business JournalMay 9, 2018 This annual tournament brings soccer to the region every January, which helps boost
               the region's number of visitors.
Fulbright Finland Partnership Award with University of South Florida - The Fulbright CenterMay 9, 2018 Fulbright Finland Foundation works together with the University of South Florida
               (USF) to support Finnish students interested in Business studies in the U.S..
Students showcase entrepreneurial spirit at innovation challenge - Lynn UniversityMay 7, 2018 "Shoedometer wants you to own your health one step at a time," said Parks. A clear
               contender in the entrepreneurial community, Parks was named a University of South
               Florida Frank and Ellen Daveler Entrepreneurship Program 2018 Scholar at another pitch
               for the product.
Best Credit Card Deals - WalletHubMay 4, 2018 Great credit card deals are bountiful these days. There are cards offering hundreds
               of dollars in initial bonuses as well as offers with 0% financing for nearly two years.
               But the details change often, and the very best credit card deals are available only
               for a limited time.
International Scholarships Abound; Study-Abroad Students Heading to Europe This SummerMay 3, 2018  A record number of USF students have won Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship
               awards and five are business and advertising students. The award allows those five
               to travel this summer and study in such locales as the Czech Republic, Florence, Italy,
               and London.
Alumni Spotlight: Ryan Adamchak, Third Generation Financial AssociateMay 3, 2018 It was an internship in a retirement services department with an investment house
               that convinced Ryan Adamchak, then a marketing major, to change direction and head
               into personal financial planning.
Tech Bytes: TiE recognizes area business leaders - 83Degrees MediaApril 30, 2018 Have you been wondering how business analytics can help you make strategic decisions?
               Then the Florida Business Analytics Forum is for you.
Sajeev Varki Is the Latest Muma College of Business Professor to Land a Fulbright
                     Core ScholarshipApril 30, 2018 Sajeev Varki, an associate marketing professor in the University of South Florida's
               Muma College of Business, became the third faculty member of the college to receive
               a Fulbright Core scholarship in less than three months.
Five USF Students Place Among the Top 20 at Daveler Pitch CompetitionApril 26, 2018 Five young entrepreneurs from the University of South Florida finished among the
               top 20 students from universities all over the state last month in a statewide business
               pitch competition held in the Muma College of Business.
Student develops health care app - The OracleApril 25, 2018 A current USF student has developed CareValet, a free service that that helps connect
               consumers with health care providers in logical and simple ways.
As big box retailers go bankrupt, what businesses could fill those space? - ABC Action NewsApril 23, 2018 "A lot of the big box stores that used to be anchor stores at malls are bailing,"
               said USF Marketing Professor David Ortinau.
Student Spotlight: Zach Otto, Among the Sales Leaders at AMA International Collegiate
                  ConferenceApril 23, 2018 On a recent trip to New Orleans, Zach Otto found himself among some skilled sales
               people. And the junior marketing major at the University of South Florida's Muma College
               of Business out-sold most, taking third place in the sales competition of the 40th
               annual American Marketing Association International Collegiate Conference.
Muma College of Business, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Achieve Five-Year AACSB
                  AccreditationApril 18, 2018 The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business this week received its
               five-year accreditation renewal from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools
               of Business. The renewal includes a separate accreditation of the Lynn Pippenger School
               of Accountancy, making the college one of 186 around the world certified in both overall
               business and accounting programs.
Photo Credit Cards: Ask the Experts - WalletHubApril 18, 2018 While photos on credit cards won't stop fraudulent online purchases or in purchase
               scenarios at automated machines (e.g., vending machines, gas pumps, etc.), it can
               be a deterrent for store purchases where the store clerk asks to see the credit card.
Minor leagues continue to crack code on fan engagement - SportsBusiness JournalApril 16, 2018 When I think of MiLB, I think of the McDonald's tag line that was a core message
               during its 1990 ad campaign "Back to the Basics."
Cybersecurity Takes Center Stage - Business FacilitiesApril 16, 2018 As cyber threats multiply at an exponential rate, an emerging cybersecurity sector
               tries to keep pace, with government agencies forming close alliances with world-class
               institutions of higher education.
Innovative Bulls to Business Program Opens Summer Session to Qualified FreshmenApril 13, 2018 The Bulls to Business initiative targets high-achieving high school students who
               have applied to and been accepted as business majors and can't wait until the fall
               to start their college careers.
Pro basketball executive scores competitors in mining data - Business ObserverApril 13, 2018 Being good at having data — and knowing how to use it — is a business necessity.
               A pro basketball executive shares some how-to behind his successes.
Another Viewpoint: Florida takes lead in local government financial transparency - Herald TribuneApril 13, 2018 Last month, Florida Gov. Rick Scott signed a measure that will convert local government
               financial audits across the state from PDF documents to machine-readable formats beginning
               in 2022.
Students Sell Ideas, Pitch Themselves at Inaugural Selling With the BullsApril 12, 2018 Selling yourself to a future employer may be among the most difficult tasks for students
               to conquer. But this month, more than 60 University of South Florida students sat
               across from corporate professionals, touting strengths and pushing reasons why those
               companies would benefit from hiring them.
Boiling Down Years of Research to a Six-Minute, 40-Second Presentation Is the Challenge
                     of Pecha KuchaApril 12, 2018 Think about it: You work for months, maybe years on a research project, generating
               reams of data, spending hours analyzing the numbers and facts, all to arrive at a
               groundbreaking conclusion.
Alan Hevner, Recently Named Distinguished University Professor, Gives a Talk on Innovative
                     Design in Scientific ResearchApril 12, 2018 Few people know innovation like Alan Hevner. The USF Citigroup/Hidden River chair
               of Distributed Technology and Eminent Scholar delivered a speech earlier this month
               at the USF Provost's Distinguished University Professor lecture series. The talk touched
               on a topic that is near and dear to his heart: innovative design in scientific research.
Student Spotlight: Nandini Agarwal, at 18, Working, Researching, Studying Beyond Her
                     YearsApril 11, 2018 Nandini Agarwal is two years away from graduation, but already she is working to
               better the lives of women in her native India. The freshman at the University of South
               Florida's Muma College of Business is working on an undergraduate research project
               for her Business Honors thesis titled "Impediments to Indian Women's Financial Literacy
               and Participation."
Florida Matters: The Changing State Of Retail - WUSFApril 11, 2018 Shopping as we know it is changing fast. Big box stores are vanishing; Amazon is
               going bricks and mortar. What does it all mean for the health of our local economy?
The Lasher Center for Financial Markets DedicatedApril 10, 2018 Accounting and finance students now have a state-of-the-art space to navigate the
               complicated world of stocks, bonds and investments.
Council recommends boosting universities' R&D to bolster Florida's future workforce - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 10, 2018 A coalition of business and civic leaders is recommending ways to boost research
               return on investment.
Darren Wells, Former Goodyear Executive, Now Muma College of Business Executive MBA
                     CoachApril 9, 2018 Students enrolled in the MBA programs at the University of South Florida's Muma College
                  of Business now have a little help along the sidelines in the way of Darren Wells,
                  the newly hired executive-in-residence and MBA coach.
Student Spotlight: Aleksandar Popovic, International Student/EntrepreneurApril 5, 2018 Aleksandar Popovic came to the United States with only one goal in mind: to pursue
               and reach what the Serbian student calls his "American Dream." And as an aspiring
               entrepreneur, the 21-year-old knows that being innovative is key to being successful.
Sport and Entertainment Management Students Spend Time in the City of Angels, Visit
                     Dodger StadiumApril 5, 2018 Second-year students at the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program hit the
               West Coast in January to explore the city's impressive sport and entertainment industry
               and to network with some of its high-level executives.
ISDS Instructor Doreen MacAulay Receives the Muma College of Business Outstanding
                     Teacher AwardApril 5, 2018 Midway through a recent teaching symposium in the Muma College of Business, the attending
               business educators took time out to honor one of their own.
Dean Moez Limayem Awarded Administrative Fulbright ScholarshipApril 2, 2018 Muma College of Business Dean Moez Limayem was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship
               that will send him to Japan in June.
Students, Visiting Faculty and Marketing Professionals Examine Cutting Trends in the
                     Sports and Entertainment IndustryApril 2, 2018 The opening message at the fourth annual University of South Florida
               Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference was foreboding: Interest in professional
               athletics is waning and it's been on the decline for years.
University of South Florida is on the map and on the rise - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 30, 2018 The school is gathering accolades for everything from graduation rates
               to research and innovation.
Pro sports leader looks for edge in wooing more fans - Business ObserverMarch 30, 2018 Drastic changes are never easy to pull off, no matter the size or scope
               of the organization. Long odds won't stop one area executive.
Naming rights for sale at St. Pete's Mahaffey Theater, likely the Pier - TBO.comMarch 27, 2018 It isn't unusual for buildings to be named in tribute to their financial benefactors. Increasingly,
               though, companies are eager to pay large sums to have their names displayed on sports
               stadiums, other facilities and even portions of public spaces.
Lightning CEO reworks leadership style, business soars - Business ObserverMarch 23, 2018 There was a time when few people wanted to make a career working for the Tampa Bay
               Lightning. But with a CEO who reworked his leadership style, the business side has
               soared. Can he maintain the success?
Want To Be Known as an Expert? Write a Book - WealthManagement.comMarch 23, 2018 Advisors who write books benefit from the power of authority marketing.
Zimmerman Speaks: Dream BiggerMarch 22, 2018 The message delivered to a standing-room-only crowd of students in the Muma College
               of Business atrium Wednesday afternoon was clear: Dream bigger and make sure the dream
               is your own.
USF's Part-Time MBA Program Ranked Among the Top 60 Public School Programs in the
                     NationMarch 20, 2018 Rankings for the full-time and part-time MBA programs at the University of South
               Florida's Muma College of Business were released today in the Best Graduate Schools
               issue of the U.S. News and World Report.
Brian Lamb Named One of the Top 100 Most Influential Blacks in Corporate America - BusinessWireMarch 20, 2018 Brian Lamb, executive vice president, head of wealth and asset management, Fifth
               Third Bank (NASDAQ: FITB), has been named to Savoy Magazine's 2018 list of the Top
               100 Most Influential Blacks in Corporate America.
USF board chair, WellCare marketing executive rank among nation's most influential
                     black leaders - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 20, 2018 Honorees are selected by analyzing spheres of influence, including corporate sector
               influence, scholastic achievement, career growth, community outreach and recognition.
Moving around: Creative spaces can lead to amazing places - SportsBusiness JournalMarch 19, 2018 The most innovative and creative spaces I have seen are in baseball parks, which
               makes sense given both the size of the venue and the number of games needing to attract
               an audience.
Alumni Spotlight: Andrea Soto, Rising Star at Raymond JamesMarch 9, 2018 Within four years of her enrollment at the University of South Florida, Andrea Soto
               landed a position as a marketing strategy analyst with Raymond James Financial. This
               benchmark achievement – just a month after she graduated – comes as no surprise to
               those who know Soto and her impressive academic track record at the Muma College of
               Business.
Marketing Students Compete in Florida Intercollegiate Case CompetitionMarch 5, 2018 Students from four Florida universities, including the University of South Florida,
               spent the last weekend in February immersed in the D.G. Yuengling & Sons brewing business.
ISDS Hosts Breakfast With A CIO With Mike Whitaker as Guest SpeakerMarch 5, 2018 Innovation, determination, and cutting through the noise of the workplace were topics
               of discussion at the fifth annual Breakfast with a CIO, sponsored by the Muma College
               of Business Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department.
Supply-Chain Management Students Invited to Take Part in an Elite Case CompetitionMarch 2, 2018 With the Muma College of Business working to make supply-chain management a new major,
               students currently learning about the emerging field of study will get a chance to
               test their knowledge at a prestigious case competition in Jacksonville next month.
Conversation with A CEO's Next Guest: Dave Dunkel, Chairman and CEO of KforceMarch 1, 2018 Dave Dunkel took his first gutsy leap in 1982 when he convinced his father, a founding
               member of the then Romac & Associates staffing company, to let him open an office
               in Tampa. It turned out to be a smart move.
Two Muma College of Business Professors Receive Fulbright Core AwardsMarch 1, 2018 Two Muma College of Business professors recently were awarded Fulbright core scholarships,
               bringing the number of USF business faculty recognized by the auspicious program over
               the past three years to seven.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship Celebrates the 10th Annual Fintech Business Plan Competition
                     Coming Up In AprilFebruary 23, 2018 The annual competition will celebrate its 10th anniversary on April 28 and to mark
               the occasion, the center, which is located in the part of the Muma College of Business,
               is recognizing winners and finalists of the Fintech Business Plan Competition over
               the past nine years by publishing a "where-are-they-now" list.
Marketing and Supply Chain Students Research Habitat for Humanity Procedures, Present
                     Options That Could Save Hundreds of Thousands of Dollars AnnuallyFebruary 22, 2018 An exhaustive study of Habitat for Humanity procurement procedures conducted by marketing
               and supply chain students in the Muma College of Business may lead to more homes being
               built for the Florida needy.
Accounting Students Win Awards at Beta Alpha Psi CompetitionFebruary 22, 2018 A team of students from the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy returned from a
               recent regional competition as winners of two prestigious awards.
Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak speaks out on net neutrality, privacy and Star Trek
                     versus Star Wars at USF - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 21, 2018 The inventor, engineer and entrepreneur drew applause when he talked about the only
               times he decided to get involved with a political issue.
Wozniak brings wisdom, humanity to USF Thought Leader Series - CatalystFebruary 21, 2018 Greeted by a standing ovation from thousands at the USF Sun Dome, Steve "The Woz"
               Wozniak was named the inaugural 2018 USF Muma College of Business Thought Leader.
Apple Inventor Steve Wozniak Speaks at USF Emphasizing People Over Technology - 813 AreaFebruary 21, 2018 For a technology guru, Steve Wozniak is pretty philosophical. Speaking yesterday
               at the University of South Florida, Wozniak spoke about his happiness equation which
               is basically "smiles minus frowns". He addressed the crowd, more general population
               than students, as the inaugural speaker for the Business Thought Leader series for
               USF's College of Business. He emphasized people over technology.
The Woz Comes to USF, Chats with Thousands in the Sun DomeFebruary 20, 2018 What came through loud and clear during Steve Wozniak's chat in front of more than
               2,000 people in the USF Sun Dome on Tuesday wasn't his expertise in engineering, his
               philanthropy, his entrepreneurship. But rather, it was his humanity.
Alumni Spotlight: Alex Keeler Investigates Money Laundering/Fraud Cases For Deutsche
                     BankFebruary 8, 2018 Tucked into his office at Deutsche Bank in Jacksonville, Alex Keeler investigates
               intricate cases of suspicious financial activity. As an anti-money laundering analyst,
               he is part of a team that unravels complex schemes to conceal ill-gotten currency
               through auditing and monitoring activities.
Long-Time Accounting Professor Terry Engle to Retire After 35 YearsFebruary 6, 2018 After some 35 years of standing in front of classes extolling the wonders of numbers
               and how they all make sense when properly entered into ledgers, Terry Engle, Advisory
               Council Professor in the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, is hanging up his green
               eyeshades and shutting down his adding machine.
2018 Florida Business Analytics Forum to Feature Tech Experts From All Over the NationFebruary 5, 2018 On the surface, artificial intelligence is a way to help humankind reach new levels
               of existence, enhance healthcare, facilitate leaps in technology and even bump the
               marketing of products and services to a more sophisticated level.
Tampa Bay Lightning CEO Steve Griggs Reveals Secrets of Success at Conversation With
                     a CEOFebruary 1, 2018 Steve Griggs fell in love with hockey early on, beginning at 3 years old when he
               first learned to ice skate. He started playing in organized leagues in preschool.
Alumni Spotlight: Lynn Pippenger, A Testament to PerseveranceJanuary 31, 2018 Lynn Pippenger, whose name adorns the Muma College of Business School of Accountancy
               on the University of South Florida's Tampa campus and the Kate Tiedemann College of
               Business at USF-St. Petersburg, after making millions in contributions, is a monument
               to perseverance.
Florida SBDC at USF Offers New Cybersecurity Service for Small-Business OwnersJanuary 31, 2018 The Florida Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida
               now offers small-business owners a new cybersecurity service designed to provide a
               sound understanding of the risks of cyber attacks and common cyber threats.
What is the future of the sports industry in the academic world? - The Sport Industry Access PodcastJanuary 30, 2018 Today's episode, Bill will share his sports career journey and explain the future
               of the sports industry in the academic world.
USF Lessons Help AquaMelon Creator Squeeze Out Success - WUSFJanuary 30, 2018 Dez Williams isn't aiming low when it comes to an ultimate goal for his watermelon
               juice company, AquaMelon.
Governments Worry That Cryptocurrencies Could Be the 'Next Swiss Bank Account' - BloombergJanuary 29, 2018 Authorities around the world worry that cryptocurrencies could become tax havens.
Orlando's XFL hopes come down to our ability to land Tim Tebow as QB - Orlando Business JournalJanuary 29, 2018 Orlando's chance to land a professional football team will require a lot of hurdles
               to be cleared by the new league.
Faculty Spotlight: Rob Hammond, Fresh Out of the DBA, Heads Up the Newly Created Center
                     for Marketing and Sales InnovationJanuary 22, 2018 Few disciplines in business are undergoing a foundational change like marketing and
               sales, where tried-and-true approaches that for decades, even centuries, led to success.
               Now, those practices no longer seem to work as efficiently and on the horizon, new
               models are emerging.
Talent search blooms - Business ObserverJanuary 19, 2018 USF, particularly its Muma College of Business, has already shown leadership in trying
               to foster closer ties between the academic and corporate worlds.
ISDS is Now Offering A Concentration on Human Resource ManagementJanuary 16, 2018 With human resource management becoming the focus of business intent on renewing
               an interest in taking care of and keeping employees happy, the University of South
               Florida's Muma College of Business has embarked on a path to offer a concentration
               that very topic.
Tampa Bay Lightning CEO Steve Griggs to be Guest Speaker at Feb. 1 Conversation with
                     a CEOJanuary 16, 2018 Aside from each year rolling out one of the more successful franchises in the NHL
               – the Tampa Bay Lightning, Steve Griggs also treats the team's fans to a top-shelf
               experience at every turn at the Amalie Arena.
Top USF donor and Sarasota executive tapped as new USF trustees - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 16, 2018 Now Gov. Rick Scott has appointed Les Muma to the university's board of trustees,
               along with Charlie Tokarz, a Sarasota executive.
How Three Musketeers' credo could turn perception of NFL - SportsBusiness JournalJanuary 15, 2018 I have always loved the NFL — even when my beloved Steelers were a laughingstock
               in the 1950s and '60s. In fact, they were so bad that when the Vikings joined the
               NFL, they became my team and I was such a fan that I was on the fence at the start
               of Super Bowl IX. However, the Steel Curtain convinced me it was time to assert my
               hometown allegiance.
Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program Hosts Cutting-Edge Analytics Conference
                     in MarchJanuary 9, 2018 Strategies revealing how to get sport and entertainment fans into seats and engaged
               are the focus of the fourth annual University of South Florida's Sport & Entertainment
               Analytics Conference, scheduled for March 28-29 on the Tampa campus.
Raymond James' Donation Names the Personal Financial Planning Program's DirectorshipJanuary 9, 2018 The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business will use a contribution
               from Raymond James to support the college's new personal financial planning degree
               program, which began offering courses this fall.
Student Spotlight: Rogan Donelly, President of Tervis, Seeks Wider Perspective as
                     an Executive MBA StudentJanuary 9, 2018 Nestled between the sunset-drenched beaches of Casey Key and the lush expanse of
               the Myakka River State Park is the factory in Sarasota County that churns out the
               iconic Tervis tumblers; the popular insulated drink containers that come with a lifetime
               guarantee, don't leave rings on your coffee tables and are embossed with, well, whatever
               your interests may be.
Fox Sports Florida & Florida Panthers Invite Fans to 'Follow the Hunt' - NHL.comJanuary 5, 2018 FOX Sports Florida and the Florida Panthers jointly announced today the launch of
               a new interactive marketing campaign for aimed at engaging fans for the remainder
               of the 2017-18 season.
What will climate change mean for Florida? - 83 Degrees MediaJanuary 3, 2018 Severe weather events such as flooding and hurricanes concern researchers such as
               Dr. Robert Hooker, a professor at the Muma College of Business Center for Supply Chain
               Management & Sustainability.
Back to top
2017
Love to Teach - Business ObserverDecember 15, 2017 Broader traces her success to the breadth of experiences she's had — even those she
               wasn't that excited about.
Year in Review: 2017 Saw Faculty Receiving Honors, Research With Impact being conducted
                     and Groundbreaking Conferences and SymposiumsDecember 12, 2017 Twelve months. Fifty-Two weeks. Three-hundred-sixty-five days. That's 2017 broken
               down to its barest essentials. But the year was much more than that. Here's a list
               of some of what made 2017 a special year.
Sport and Entertainment Management Students Soak Up Business Culture and Historic
                     British Tradition During Five-Day TripDecember 6, 2017 In a country steeped with history and culture and in a city that is at the forefront
               of the global business scene, 24 graduate students from the University of South Florida's
               Muma College of Business got a first-hand look at work and life in the United Kingdom
               during a whirlwind six-day trip last month.
Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak to speak at USF in February - Florida PoliticsDecember 5, 2017 Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak will speak in Tampa next February at the USF Sun Dome.
USF changes venue following sellout to see Apple co-founder - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 5, 2017 Overwhelming demand to see Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has prompted University
               of South Florida to change the venue for the much-anticipated Feb. 20 event.
Tech Bytes: Tech-related events look at success, failure - 83 Degrees MediaDecember 4, 2017 Starting a new business can be challenging, but it's a whole lot easier with help
               from a friend. That's the idea behind this December's Trep Talks, which is all about
               startups. Whatever you consider them to be.
Peering into 2018: Gifts that will improve lives, livelihoods - SportsBusiness JournalDecember 4, 2017 While I usually write a book column every December, I decided this year to do something
               a little different. After all, this space is about things happening in the world of
               sports and sports business that have an impact. So, for the sports world: The holidays
               and 2018 would be better served with these gifts ...
Digital Marketing Certificate Helps Professionals Advance CareersNovember 30, 2017 The Digital Marketing Certificate program offered at the University of South Florida's
               Muma College of Business is gaining traction with executives near and far and its
               attendees are finding the certificate translates into promotions, higher salaries
               and company-transformative responsibilities.
Marketing Students Study Up on Terrace Community Middle School, Present Plans to Boost
                     ImageNovember 30, 2017 Splashing a nonprofit, charter school's website with vibrant colors and adding more
               photos, starting a "Trick-or-Treat Street" and keeping better track of alumni were
               just a few suggestions offered by Muma College of Business marketing students to help
               the Terrace Community Middle School boost its profile in the community.
Center for Entrepreneurship's Graduate Program Ranked in Top 25 Nationally for the
                     11th Consecutive YearNovember 30, 2017 For the 11th consecutive year, the graduate program at the University of South Florida's
               Center for Entrepreneurship was ranked among the top 25 in the nation by The Princeton
               Review and Entrepreneur magazine.
Marketing Professor Jim Stock Named Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement
                     of ScienceNovember 28, 2017 The Distinguished University Professor and the Frank Harvey Endowed Professor of
               Marketing in the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business, Stock was
               one of six USF professors selected as Fellows of the American Association for the
               Advancement of Science. The award is considered among the top honors in academic research.
Accounting Professor and Former FBI Special Agent Kerry Myers Provides Security for
                     Relief Trip to Puerto RicoNovember 28, 2017 When the "Flight of Hope" was being planned to bring 23,000 pounds of much needed
               supplies to hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico earlier this month, a security officer was
               needed. So they asked around and settled on ... an accounting professor at the Lynn
               Pippenger School of Accountancy.
USF professors honored as AAAS Fellows - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 21, 2017 Six University of South Florida professors whose research efforts span biology, engineering,
               chemistry and business have been selected as Fellows to the American Association for
               the Advancement of Science, the organization announced Nov. 20.
3 signals that the Tampa Bay technology community is on a growth track - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 20, 2017 Three companies that received global or regional recognition in recent days are positive
               signs for the technology industry in the Tampa Bay area.
Six professors help USF's quest to be a top research institute - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 20, 2017 Six University of South Florida professors researching biology, engineering, chemistry
               and business were selected as Fellows to the American Association for the Advancement
               of Science.
Tech superstar sparks a sell-out at USF Muma business college event - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 17, 2017 Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Wozniak will be the inaugural speaker at the University
               of South Florida Muma College of Business' new Thought Leader Series.
3 strategies to grow Tampa Bay's talent pipeline - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 17, 2017 Corporate and nonprofit programs could help the area address its talent shortfall,
               cited as the biggest challenge in a new report on regional competitiveness.
Apple Co-Founder Steve Wozniak Named Inaugural Speaker for the Muma College of Business
                     Thought Leader SeriesNovember 15, 2017 As thought leaders go, you can't get much headier than Steve Wozniak, co-founder
               of Apple, philanthropist and entrepreneur and now, the inaugural speaker at the Muma
               College of Business Thought Leader Series, scheduled for Feb. 20 on the Tampa campus.
Center for Creativity and Analytics Plays A Major Role in Collecting, Interpreting
                     Big Data in The 2018 State of The Region ReportNovember 14, 2017 Exhaustive joint studies comparing the Tampa Bay region to metro areas with similar
               demographics and business potential used – for the very first time – groundbreaking
               analytics compiled and interpreted by the Muma College of Business' Center for Analytics
               and Creativity.
Where Tampa Bay soars and sinks compared to other metros - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 14, 2017 The Tampa Bay region fares poorly in wages, transportation and education in a new
               report comparing the area with 19 other metros nationwide.
Trigaux: Can we grasp potential of two new ways to track region's ability to compete? - TBO.comNovember 14, 2017 Two fresh ways to track how the Tampa Bay is doing compared to other metro areas
               were unveiled Tuesday to business and community leaders here during a luncheon held
               at the University of South Florida.
Les And Pam Muma Talk About Their $15M Gift To USF - WUSFNovember 14, 2017 One of the major headlines coming from the University of South Florida's gala celebration
               of its Unstoppable Campaign reaching its billion dollar goal was the announcement
               of another $15 million gift from philanthropists Les and Pam Muma.
Pam and Les Muma gift $15 million to USF, becoming the school's largest individual
                     donors - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 13, 2017 Pam and Les Muma have donated $15 million to the University of South Florida to support
               business and health programs and the school's athletics programs.
Couple announces $15M gift to university - Business ObserverNovember 13, 2017 Pam and Les Muma announced Saturday they plan to donate $15 million to the University
               of South Florida.
Dozens Attend 41st Annual Basic Economic Development Course Offered through the Florida
                     SBDC at USFNovember 13, 2017 The Florida Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida
               completed its 41st Annual Basic Economic Development Course last week, with some attendees
               coming from as far away as Wyoming and the Virgin Islands.
Pam and Les Muma Announce $15 Million Gift as USF Celebrates Reaching its USF: Unstoppable
                     Fundraising Campaign Goal of $1 Billion - USF NewsNovember 12, 2017 The Mumas, whose landmark philanthropy has made a transformative impact on the University
               of South Florida, announced a new major gift of $15 million to benefit three areas
               of the university they already support: business, athletics and health.
With $15 million donation to USF, top donors urge others to follow their lead - TBO.comNovember 11, 2017 The university had already hit its $1 billion fundraising goal, and the college sweethearts
               had already cemented their spot as the top donors to their beloved alma mater.
Personal Financial Planning Program Gets Approval From CFP Board of StandardsNovember 6, 2017 The Muma College of Business's new Personal Financial Planning course of study was
               approved last week by the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards in Washington,
               D.C.
Hundreds of High School Seniors Attend Big Data DayNovember 3, 2017 High school students, hundreds of them, all considered the best and brightest in
               their computer science and tech courses, spent Friday learning about the University
               of South Florida and the Muma College of Business and how enrolling here can lead
               to lucrative careers in business analytics and information systems.
Orlando won't join other cities for World Cup bid — yet - Orlando Business JournalNovember 1, 2017 The region will be meeting with U.S. bid executives on Nov. 13.
Graduate Business Students Win a Chance to Compete in Statewide Case Competition in
                     FebruaryOctober 31, 2017 A team of graduate students won the Fall Muma College of Business Graduate Business
               Case Competition last weekend. The students' evaluation of a case presented by a big-data
               analytics firm in downtown Tampa gets them a spot in the 2018 statewide competition.
Cybercrime has cost more than $10 trillion; how you can protect yourself - Wink NewsOctober 27, 2017 Equifax, an agency that's tasked with protecting your credit, announced it was the
               victim of a data breach affecting around 146 million Americans. That's more than half
               of the U.S. adult population.
Collaboration Between Muma College of Business Students and ReliaQuest Wins Technology
                     Partnership AwardOctober 27, 2017 A collaborative effort between Muma College of Business students and a local tech
               company has won an award from the region's top technology advocate.
ISDS Students Come Up With Solutions Benefitting Credit Union ServicesOctober 27, 2017 Students with the Muma College of Business Information Systems and Decision Sciences
               department recently completed a project in which they developed a system to introduce
               voice command interfaces with credit-union records systems.
Unified Front - Business ObserverOctober 27, 2017 As CEO of Tech Data, Bob Dutkowsky oversees a business with more than $36 billion
               in revenue that sells $150 million of inventory daily to more than 100 countries. But
               "none of that matters if people aren't engaged in what we do," he says. The fundamental
               ingredient in a successful company, he adds, is "acknowledging the importance of people."
Retired Raymond James CFO Pippenger named philanthropist of year for USF business
                     gifts - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 26, 2017 Retired Raymond James Financial chief financial officer Lynn Pippenger, whose name
               adorns the recently opened centerpiece building at the Kate Tiedemann College of Business
               on the campus of USF St. Petersburg, was named Thursday as the "Philanthropist of
               the Year" by the Suncoast Chapter of the Association of Fundraising Professionals.
DBA Students Shine at Prestigious Research ConferenceOctober 26, 2017 Business scenarios including felony theft, a devastating fire, heart attacks and
               whether the owner of a family feed store should hand the business to his daughter
               were among the cases studied and written about by Muma College of Business students
               in a prestigious business research conference in Chicago recently.
2017's Best Baseball Cities - WalletHubOctober 25, 2017 What does it take to be a true baseball fan? Mostly a lot of patience and sometimes
               a lot of dough, depending on how closely you want to follow the sport
USF lab takes first steps towards robotic caretakers - Fox 13October 23, 2017 A USF researcher believes he will be able to build a robot that can care for elderly
               people in their homes within five to 10 years.
Hooper: After living through them, she pulls people out of credit woes - TBO.comOctober 19, 2017 Atlanta, a place known for rising from the ashes of the Civil War to become an international
               city, proved to be a perfect backdrop for Artricia James-Heard's own rise from what
               she calls "a very vulnerable time in her life."
Chico's Shelley Broader, Next Conversation With a CEO on Nov. 8October 18, 2017 Sitting at the top of the Chico's FAS empire, Shelley Broader traces the beginnings
               of her mega-successful business career to a time when she may have oversold her experience.
Atlanta Video Technology Firm onQ Raises $7 Million - Metro Atlanta CEOOctober 16, 2017 onQ, developer of a ground-breaking solution for interactive group communications
               and learning, announced the closing of an early stage equity financing round totaling
               $7 million, led by a diverse group of seasoned private investors.
A Magic Moment For Orlando Season Ticket Holders - ForbesOctober 11, 2017 One of the biggest challenges that sports organizations at the professional, collegiate,
               and high school levels face is filling their venues by selling season tickets for
               games or events.
Stadium guru: Baseball can work for Tampa Bay in the right spot - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 10, 2017 Before sunrise on Monday morning, Tim Leiweke walked around the Channel District-Ybor
               City area that could someday house a new ballpark for the Tampa Bay Rays.
Muma College of Business Undergraduates' Case Review May Help Boy Scouts Turn its
                     Membership ErosionOctober 10, 2017 A list of recommendations aiming to bump membership in the Boy Scouts of America
               – formulated by a team of Muma College of Business undergraduates – is headed for
               the organization's international leadership council.
Future of Sports And Entertainment Revealed at Lecture SeriesOctober 10, 2017 From heightened security at sporting events, to holographic professional games played
               in home stadiums of teams playing away games to the emergence of esports as a profound
               money maker, the future of sports and entertainment – or at least a hazy vision of
               what it might be – played itself out Monday night in the University of South Florida
               Sun Dome.
USF Bulls Make Up Seven of 16 Finalists in Statewide Pitch CompetitionOctober 9, 2017 A virtual personal assistant for the homebound elderly, a ride-share app for disabled
               people and even a home-care robot are among the ideas being pitched to a panel of
               health-care professionals this month in the Florida Blue Statewide Health Care Innovation
               Pitch Competition.
A bolt of funds - Business ObserverOctober 6, 2017 Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik has put his stamp on yet another piece of Tampa
               — The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business.
Free USF Lecture To Bring Big Sports Business Names To Sun Dome - WUSFOctober 6, 2017 This year's program features a trio of speakers including Brendan Donohue, the managing
               director of the NBA 2K League, a competitive basketball video game league launching
               next year.
Tech Data, Florida Blue: Integrating People Strategies into the Bottom LineOctober 5, 2017 Executives in two top industries in the Tampa Bay region – Tech Data and Florida
               Blue – met in an informal setting Thursday morning to discuss the latest trend in
               business: allowing human resource officers to breathe the rarified air of the C-suite.
USF helps after Irma with small business loans - Fox 13October 3, 2017 "Immediately after the hurricane when funds were appropriated we were already in
               place to help these small businesses receive financial assistance," says Eileen Rodriguez,
               SBDC's executive director.
Consultants With the Florida SBDC at USF Keep Busy Helping Small Businesses Stay Afloat
                     in the Wake of Hurricane IrmaOctober 3, 2017 Recognizing that 40 percent of all businesses that shut down following a disaster
               never re-open, the Florida Small Business Development Center at USF is helping to
               heal property and economic damage caused by Hurricane Irma last month.
USF Forum Provides Insight into Transformational Approach to HR StrategyOctober 2, 2017 Fortune 100 Execs Discuss National Trend Aligning HR and Business Strategies
DBA Program Director Matt Mullarkey Still on the Mend After Bike Wreck in JuneSeptember 28, 2017 Matt Mullarkey pedals his bicycle about 30 miles every other day, most often around
               the sunny, sea-breeze-swept streets near his St. Pete Beach home. This day started
               out no differently. He was making his way toward Fort DeSoto Park, cruising at about
               24 mph, a pretty good clip.
USF Business Program Named For Vinik Family - WUSFSeptember 27, 2017 Jeff Vinik's ties to the University of South Florida continue to get stronger, as
               a Muma College of Business program now bears his family's name.
A Transformational Gift Turns the Sport & Entertainment Management Program into the
                     Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management ProgramSeptember 26, 2017 After five years of giving graduate business students the tools they need to succeed
               in the world of sports and entertainment, the program that boasts a near 100 percent
               placement rate for its graduates now is named after the philanthropists who helped
               found it in 2012.
USF Honors Vinik Family Generosity by Naming Program After CoupleSeptember 26, 2017 USF Muma College of Business names its Sport & Entertainment Management program after
               Tampa Bay business leaders and philanthropists Jeff and Penny Vinik
Work begins on USF building to anchor Water Street Tampa - 83 Degrees MediaSeptember 26, 2017 Vinik is a part owner in SPP, which is developing Water Street Tampa over a 10-year
               period. He and his wife Penny were recognized by USF September 26 when the university
               named its dual-degree Sports and Entertainment Management program after them. The
               Viniks helped launch, and provided more than $5 million of support, for the program
               run by USF's Muma College of Business.
USF to Name College of Business Program for Vinik Family - Bay News 9September 26, 2017 University of South Florida announced today that it plans to honor Jeff and Penny
               Vinik for their commitment to the school.
Degree Re-named for Vinik - WFLASeptember 26, 2017 USF named a college of business program after Penny and Jeff Vinik.
USF honors Vinik Family generosity by naming program after couple - NHL.comSeptember 26, 2017 Sport & Management program to be named after Tampa Bay business leaders and philanthropists
               Jeff and Penny Vinik
After $5M in gifts, USF names graduate program for Jeff and Penny Vinik - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 26, 2017 Jeff and Penny Vinik have given more than $5 million to a sports management program
               at the University of South Florida, and on Tuesday, USF officially named the program
               in their honor.
Lightning's Vinik puts name on USF sports management program in 15-year deal - SportsBusiness JournalSeptember 25, 2017 The University of South Florida's sports management program will further cement its
               connection to its founding benefactor this week when it announces a 15-year naming-rights
               agreement with Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik.
USF to rename graduate program for Viniks - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 25, 2017 A program within the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business will
               be renamed in honor of Jeff and Penny Vinik.
Update: USF business program acknowledges $5 million in support from Vinik family - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 25, 2017 Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik, along with his wife, Penny, and the team, helped
               launch USF's dual-degree, sports-centric graduate program in 2012.
Cool Credit Cards: Best Terms, Designs & Trends - WalletHubSeptember 21, 2017 "Cool" is a subjective term that few people associate with credit cards. Sure, celebrities
               seem pretty sweet when they're flashing their black cards, but how cool can us common
               folk really look when we pull out our plastic at the gas station or grocery store?
Neha Sathe competes in Florida Healthcare Innovation Pitch - College of Public HealthSeptember 20, 2017 USF College of Public Health undergraduate student Neha Sathe was selected as a finalist
               at the annual Florida Healthcare Innovation Pitch Competition.
Business Continuity and Disaster Preparedness - SBDC Tampa BaySeptember 19, 2017 When disaster strikes, businesses in the Tampa Bay region can find the education,
               training and assistance needed to survive through our Business Continuation Services.
Sport & Entertainment Management Program Hosts Nationally Recognized Speakers at its
                     Annual Lecture SeriesSeptember 15, 2017 Three heavy hitters in the business of sports are the guest speakers at the Muma
               College of Business Sport & Entertainment Management program's annual fall lecture
               event.
Muma College of Business Staffers Mount a Post-Irma Food Drive for the Feed-A-Bull
                     PantrySeptember 14, 2017 Out of the frightening experience of going through a hurricane, comes some good.
ISDS Professor Marvin Karlins' Latest Book Translated into 15 LanguagesSeptember 14, 2017 Besides standing in front of a principles of management class in the Muma College
               of Business teaching the ins and outs of business and administration, Marvin Karlins
               likes to sit in front of a keyboard. And write. And write. And write.
Several stores in the Tampa Bay area continue to have no food or run very low - ABC Action NewsSeptember 13, 2017 Day by day the grocery and restaurant situation in the Bay Area is getting better,
               but it's going to take two weeks for everything to get back to the way it was before
               Irma.
Arnie Bellini, ConnectWise CEO and Endurance Swimmer, Next Up in Conversation With
                     a CEOSeptember 6, 2017 Arnie Bellini sees the connection between running a successful tech business – one
               that will top $200 million in total revenue this year – and swimming. And that doesn't
               mean swimming a couple of laps in a pool.
The Forward Scholarship for Women of Excellence, In Just One Year, Receives Enough
                     Donations to Reach Endowment LevelAugust 30, 2017 A scholarship that was implemented just last year by four Muma College of Business
               accounting graduates has grown to the point of endowment.
Press '1' if you're sick of customer satisfaction surveys - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 25, 2017 They're everywhere you look now, the ubiquitous customer feedback survey.
Longtime Business Law Professor Bob Welker Tops All Donors: Makes Donations For 41
                     Consecutive YearsAugust 25, 2017 Business law professor Bob Welker is no stranger to the halls of the Muma College
               of Business. And the college is no stranger to Welker's largesse.
It's A Record: Nearly $600,000 in Scholarships Given Out At the Annual Muma College
                     of Business Scholarship LuncheonAugust 25, 2017 The amount of scholarships awarded to business students was the most ever given out
               in the history of the event.
Inaugural Class of the Muma College of Business Doctor of Business Administration
                     Program Getting Ready to GraduateAugust 22, 2017 The inaugural cohort of the Muma College of Business's Doctor of Business Administration
               was fitted last week for commencement gowns. The doctoral candidates who graduate
               in December, see the degree not only as a significant accomplishment, but as an achievement
               that enriches each of their lives in different ways.
Faculty Spotlight: Leo Chen Takes Over the Reins of the Student Managed Investment
                     Fund ProgramAugust 16, 2017 There's no Monopoly money in the Student Managed Investment Fund Program. It is "real
               money in real time," said Leo Chen, the new director of the program at the University
               of South Florida's Muma College of Business.
Student Spotlight: Nicole Perone, Graduating in December, But Not Your Typical Undergraduate
                     Majoring in MarketingAugust 16, 2017 For some 20 years, Nicci Perone's path was her own. She started, built up and ran
               Bella Studios and Bella Coatings. She hand-painted signs – even billboards – and then
               expanded into custom painting, decorative finishing and specialty plaster work on
               high-end homes and businesses.
USF to Host Seventh Annual Executive DBA Council Conference; Hundreds From Around
                     the World Expected to AttendAugust 11, 2017 The Executive Doctor of Business Administration Council's Engaged Management Scholarship
               Conference, which draws scholarly practitioners from around the world, is set to take
               place here on the University of South Florida campus from Sept. 6-10.
Alumni Spotlight: Shivam Patel Is Part of a Growing Trend: Recent Grads in the Workplace
                     Creating Scholarships for Deserving StudentsAugust 10, 2017 Patel's first scholarship was awarded last year to Luis Duque, now is a social media
               analyst with the Bank of America, after graduating earlier this year from the business
               analytics and information systems program. He has not had an easy road in his young
               life. A couple of years ago, he found himself taking college courses while homeless
               and sleeping in his car.
Student Spotlight: Pallavi Gopee paves the way for students of diverse backgrounds
                     at the Muma College of BusinessAugust 9, 2017 No challenge goes unconquered by Pallavi Gopee. Whether it's the hurdle of moving
               to a new country, becoming a college student or adjusting to a new culture, this business
               administration major has overcome each of them, one by one, making them chapters in
               her book on how to succeed.
Beta Alpha Psi Accounting Chapter Wins Impressive Award at National Conference in
                     CaliforniaAugust 7, 2017 The University of South Florida's Beta Alpha Psi chapter was one of 11 chapters worldwide
               to be recognized as a prestigious Gold Chapter and one of only two chapters to have
               received the award each year since the award's inception nine years ago.
A new look at outsourcing your marketing rights - SportsBusiness JournalAugust 7, 2017 The first notable instance of a professional sports organization providing sponsorship
               sales and consulting services to a college athletic program occurred in 2001 when
               Fenway Sports Group agreed to represent Boston College and assume control of the marketing
               rights related to athletics.
Student Spotlight: Alexis Drees Makes Her Mark at the Muma College of Business and
                     in Hong KongAugust 4, 2017 Alexis Drees is wasting no time becoming a citizen of the world, a businesswoman
               on the cutting edge of international finance and product innovation. And she hasn't
               even graduated yet.
Tokens, Vaults, Ties and Taxes - BloombergJuly 26, 2017 Here is a paper by Donald Berndt, Saurav Chakraborty and James McCart of the University
               of South Florida and David Boogers of FinaMetrics.com on "Using Agent-Based Modeling
               to Assess Liquidity Mismatch in Open-End Bond Funds." They run agent-based simulations
               for a bond-market shock with various levels of mutual-fund ownership.
USF's Sport & Entertainment Management Program Ranked Among the Top 20 on the Planet
                     by SportBusiness InternationalJuly 24, 2017 The 5-year-old Muma College of Business program, which boasts a near 100 percent
               placement rate within three months of graduation, ranked No. 19 on the list which
               included public and private universities.
Jerry Jones' vision of game-day hospitality is the stuff of Legends - Dallas NewsJuly 20, 2017 "Jerry Jones is a person who's always thought 'I can do better,'" said Will Sutton,
               a sports marketing professor at the University of South Florida. "He's done it with
               stadium design. He's done it with stadium amenities, stadium pricing and stadium marketing.
               Now he's doing it with other people's stadiums."
Marketing Students Researching Habitat for Humanity Supply-Chain ProceduresJuly 14, 2017 Ten University of South Florida marketing students are researching ways to improve
               how Habitat for Humanity does business.
Information Systems and Decision Sciences Department Research Productivity Receives
                     National RecognitionJuly 11, 2017 The Information Systems and Decision Sciences department with the University of South
               Florida's Muma College of Business was ranked No 30 in business school research rankings
               compiled by the University of Texas at Dallas.
Dreaded Statistics Class: Because It's Challenging Doesn't Mean It Has To Be HardJuly 7, 2017 There are students – a few – who actually relish the chance to enroll in a business
               statistics class. They enjoy the cold comfort of hard-and-fast numbers, how those
               integers relate to one another and the clarity they possess when fully understood.
Alumni Spotlight: Ishrain Hussain Crashes Through Cultural, Professional BarriersJuly 6, 2017 A simple note on the Facebook page of University of South Florida alumna Ishrain
               Hussain appeared at midnight on June 12: "Moved to Penang, Malaysia."
Looking for Professional Status in All the Wrong Places - Journal of Financial PlanningJune 30, 2017 University programs are the future of the profession for satisfying the demand for financial
               planners in both quantity and quality.
Innovation Fusion showcases local talent, global diversity in Tampa - 83 DegreesJune 24, 2017 The Tampa Bay Area's growing innovation culture may not be as well known as those
               in some other cities, but it has the talent, ideas and raw materials to succeed like
               none other, says Tampa Bay Lightning Owner Jeff Vinik.
Moving Up After Moving Out: Getting Promoted in the Real Business WorldJune 12, 2017 As the dean of a thriving business college in a metropolitan area teeming with business-related
               job opportunities, the biggest part of my responsibility to students is assuring their
               success, both in the classroom and later on in their professional careers.
Digital Marketing Certificate Program Uses Seasoned Experts, Marketing Instructors
                     to Teach ProfessionalsJune 8, 2017 Professional marketers and managers attended a digital marketing certificate program
               at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business last week, learning
               how to maximize their marketing efforts through cutting-edge technology.
Breakfast with a CIO Reveals Great Things Happening in the Business IT Field; Horizons
                     Expanding, Fresh Ideas SoughtJune 7, 2017 The world of information systems is booming right now, with new advances bringing
               challenging – and plentiful – job opportunities for those entering the field, according
               to speakers at the annual Breakfast with a CIO, sponsored by the Muma College of Business
               Information Systems and Decision Sciences department this week.
Analysts With Industry Experience Might Be Better Watchdogs - Wall Street JournalJune 4, 2017 Study finds evidence that such analysts are more likely to challenge CEOs and earnings
               manipulation
Muma College of Business Marketing Department Plans To Offer a New Major, Supply-Chain
                     Management, by 2019June 1, 2017 Supply-chain management currently is offered as a concentration in the bachelor's
               and master's degrees in marketing and in the MBA program. If the new degree is approved,
               it likely would be the first time in Florida that business students can obtain a bachelor's
               degree in supply-chain management.
Hackers at the Gate: We Can Turn the Tide Against the Threat to Our Connectivity - BizEdMay 29, 2017 We are facing a threat to our way of life that doesn't include mushroom clouds or
               troops massing on beachheads. This threat doesn't pit armadas of missiles lobbed over
               oceans heading toward unsuspecting cities.
Alumni Spotlight: Daniel Labossiere, USF Business Graduate, Entreprenuer, Authors
                     a Book About His LifeMay 26, 2017 When Daniel Labossiere emigrated from Haiti during the repressive François "Papa
               Doc" Duvalier era, his new home in the United States was not quite what he had expected.
               It was difficult. And hateful.
ISDS Offers Innovative Programs to Help Pay Tuition and Costs of Certification ExamsMay 24, 2017 An outreach program offered through the Muma College of Business' Information Systems
               and Decision Sciences department to teach technical skills to disadvantaged youths
               is taking place this summer with the hopes those students will be hired by the businesses
               that help support the federally funded program.
New USF Program Hopes To Turn Out Next Generation Of Financial Planners - WUSFMay 23, 2017 Before coming to work at the University of South Florida, Dr. Laura Mattia was a
               personal financial planner, with her own firm in New York State.
Wheelchair-bound Man with FA Walks Across USF Graduation Stage, Inspiring All - Friedreich's Ataxia NewsMay 19, 2017 As a kid growing up in Seattle, Sam Bridgman lived and dreamed sports. An avid Seahawks
               fan, he loved football, baseball, hockey, soccer, skiing and boxing. In fact, world
               heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali was his idol, and "Impossible is Nothing" his mantra.
Hundreds Attend USF Accounting Circle Conference, Hear About Leadership, Cybersecurity,
                  Industry TrendsMay 18, 2017 What do accountants and Navy SEALs have in common? Most would say not much. Accountants
               sit in safe, climate-controlled offices in front of computers full of numbers. SEALs
               generally spend thousands of hours in grueling training suffering through all kinds
               of weather for the chance to take part in a mission that involves all-out warfare.
Information Systems Professor's Research on Stock Market Dynamics Says Market Make-Up
                     Could Spell TroubleMay 18, 2017 "Considering its current evolution, the bond market ranks fairly high on the list
               of potential risks to financial stability," said USF Muma College of Business professor
               and lead researcher Don Berndt, "prompting regulators and industry participants to
               question its resilience under stress."
College student rises from wheelchair to walk at his graduation - TodayMay 12, 2017 A University of South Florida graduate student with a progressive disease that limits
               mobility received thunderous applause when he walked across the stage to receive his
               MBA.
[Video] Wheelchair-Bound Graduate Stuns Spectators By Walking Onstage To Receive His
                  Scroll - Malaysian DigestMay 12, 2017 Graduation day is always special. It marks the culmination of all your efforts, the
               proof that your sweat, blood and tears during all those years are finally worth it.
Como no puede oír, los compañeros de este hombre le sorprendieron con el cumpleaños
                     feliz en señas - UnivisionMay 12, 2017 Los empleados de un restaurante en Lawton, Oklahoma, sorprendieron a su compañero
               con discapacidad auditiva con una interpretación de "Feliz Cumpleaños" en señas.
This guy lived up to his motto "impossible is nothing" when he left his wheelchair
                     to walk at graduation - Buzzfeed NewsMay 11, 2017 
In video: Wheelchair-bound student walks to collect diploma - Daily MailMay 11, 2017 Sam Bridgman lives with Friedreich´s ataxia. It is a life-shortening disease that
               causes loss of coordination from the toes to the fingertips. But Sam rose from his
               wheelchair to walk across the stage at the University of South Florida and receive
               two master´s degrees from the USF Muma College of Business.
This wheelchair-bound student walking to collect his Masters degrees is the most inspiring
                     thing you'll see all day - The Irish NewsMay 11, 2017 "Inspirational" is a word that is used altogether too often, but it couldn't be more
               perfect when used to describe student Sam Bridgman.
Why restaurants dim the lights - The Franklin News-PostMay 10, 2017 "Lighting can set the mood in your restaurant, creating a soothing ambience that
               encourages customers to linger or a vibrant atmosphere that helps turn tables," the
               advice reads.
A USF professor was featured during Jimmy Fallon's 'Tonight Show' opening - Tampa Bay TimesMay 10, 2017 Tuesday, Fallon told his crowd, was "National Teacher Day." He asked if there were
               any teachers in the room, and soon about a dozen audience members were walking down
               toward the stage. At the end of the pack was Rick Kelso, a beloved instructor in USF's
               marketing department.
MBA student who uses wheelchair walks across stage at commencement ceremony - ABC NewsMay 10, 2017 A business school graduate from the University of South Florida took some of the
               most meaningful steps of his life last Saturday.
MBA student who uses wheelchair walks across stage at commencement ceremony - Yahoo! NewsMay 10, 2017 Sam Bridgman, 25, who has been in a wheelchair since he was 18 because of a rare
               genetic condition, challenged himself to walk across the stage to accept his diploma
               at his college commencement ceremony.
25-year-old University of South Florida MBA graduate Sam Bridgman rises from his wheelchair
                     to walk across the stage at graduation - Good Morning AmericaMay 10, 2017 Also posted on Twitter and posted on Instagram
Graduate Who Uses Wheelchair Walks Across Stage to Receive His Degree - Inside EditionMay 10, 2017 It was an inspiring sight as a graduate at the University of South Florida stepped
               out of his wheelchair and walked on stage to accept two masters' degrees Saturday.
Graduate in Wheelchair Walks Across Stage to Receive His Degree - CBS 8May 10, 2017 It was an inspiring sight as a graduate at the University of South Florida stepped
               out of his wheelchair and walked on stage to accept two masters' degrees Saturday.
Student Confined To Wheelchair Stands And Walks Across Stage For College Graduation - 98.7 KLUVMay 10, 2017 Sam Bridgman just graduated from the University of South Florida with a master's
               degree and an MBA from the Muma College of Business Sport & Entertainment Management
               program. He's been confined to a wheel chair since he was 18 years old due to Friedreich's
               ataxia.
USF student with rare disease wanted to walk at graduation — then he did it (w/video) - Tampa Bay TimesMay 8, 2017 Though Freireich's ataxia, a rare degenerative disorder that began taking over his
               body at 15, cut short his days as a baseball standout and double black diamond skier,
               he hoped to remain active in sports with a degree in sports and entertainment management.
G.J. de Vreede's Research Publications, Citations Ranked Among the Top in the NationMay 5, 2017 Gert-Jan de Vreede was named the top management information systems scholar from
               USF on a list that measures research productivity and citations of their work.
Student Spotlight: Kaitlyn Franza's Love For Business Develops Skills in the Dean's
                     SuiteMay 5, 2017 Kaitlyn Franza, now one of the faces of the Muma College of Business Dean's Suite
               with her engaging smile and gregarious manner, might never have come here had it not
               been for a chance visit to the Bulls Business Community open house during her senior
               year in high school.
USF To Award More Than 6,000 Degrees - WUSFMay 5, 2017 Almost 6,500 students from across the University of South Florida System will receive
               their degrees this weekend during nine ceremonies in the school's 111th commencement
               convocation.
ISDS' Alan Hevner Named Distinguished University Professor by Provost's OfficeMay 4, 2017 Alan R. Hevner, an Eminent Scholar in the Information Systems Decision Sciences Department,
               has one more esteemed title to add to his curriculum vita: Distinguished University
               Professor.
Student Mentors Recruited to Help Classmates Struggling in Principles of Finance ClassMay 4, 2017 Cold, hard data collected from a challenging online prerequisite finance course has
               revealed an unlikely variable that dramatically impacts student success: Humans.
Special USF grad: 'I'm always moving forward' - Daily News LinksMay 3, 2017 A USF scholar, who's sure to a wheelchair, plans to stroll throughout the stage to
               get his graduate levels this weekend.
Special USF grad: 'I'm always moving forward' - Bay News 9May 3, 2017 A USF student, who is bound to a wheelchair, plans to walk across the stage to get
               his graduate degrees this weekend.
Muma College of Business Grad Student Sam Bridgman Will Bring His Own Brand Of Inspiration
                     to CommencementMay 2, 2017 Of the thousands of mortarboard-and-robe-clad graduates crossing the University of
               South Florida Sun Dome stage this weekend to receive their diplomas, Sam Bridgman's
               steps may be the most poignant.
Muma Trading Challenge 2017 Winner: Matthew Henricksson, Finance PhD StudentMay 2, 2017 The gavel has fallen and the financial dust has settled on the 2017 version of the
               Muma Trading Challenge. Emerging at the top of the heap was Matthew Henricksson, a
               first-year finance PhD student who made more than $300,000 in virtual cash in three
               months.
USF to battle financial illiteracy - Fox 13May 1, 2017 It's a younger generation that's diverse and highly educated. But when it comes to
               money matters, they could apparently use some advice.
International Business Symposium 2017 Features Commerce ExpertsApril 27, 2017 The sea on which global commerce sails is no longer calm. Political divisions and
               economic differences are churning up those waters and the course set by international
               companies and traders is now beset by hurricanes and typhoons.
Center for Entrepreneurship's Educational Programs Are Among the Best in the World,
                     Says AACSBApril 26, 2017 The University of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship, recently ranked No.
               10 in the nation for the quality of its curriculum, today was named among top 35 programs
               on the planet.
Is baseball too slow? The battle lines are drawn -- and MLB is taking a side - ESPNApril 26, 2017 Art Nelson knows that up the New Jersey Turnpike on Park Avenue, Major League Baseball's
               deepest thinkers are hard at work trying to solve maybe the hottest topic on commissioner
               Rob Manfred's to-do list: pace of game.
It's Official: The Big Screen in the Atrium Is Now Known as the Richard A. Corbett
                     Digital WallApril 26, 2017 Though the new Muma College of Business digital wall has been up and dry-running
               for several weeks, the man who paid for it hadn't seen it. He hadn't seen the content
               created just for the high-resolution wall; the faculty, alumni and student spotlights;
               the social media feeds or the four cable channels broadcasting simultaneously on half
               the screen.
Small Business Development Center at USF Offers Cybersecurity Tips for Small BusinessesApril 24, 2017 As if you don't have enough to think about while running your own business – ever
               increasing competition for customers and employees, managing bills and cash flow,
               learning the ins and outs of social media marketing and which human resource laws
               apply to you – along comes cybersecurity and data breaches.
USF unveils a degree for financial planners - News ChiefApril 21, 2017 Surveys seem to come out by the boatload and all say essentially the same thing.
               Too many people know diddly about money, investing, insurance, how to save, how to
               spend or borrow wisely, or how to prepare for retirement.
Citi Executive Gregg Morton Leads Global Banking Boot CampApril 20, 2017 As boot camps go, this one was pretty relaxed. There was no obstacle courses, no
               bellowing drill sergeants and no 10-mile runs in the rain with full gear.
USF to offer new personal financial planning degree - 83 Degrees MediaApril 18, 2017 The University of South Florida will be offering a new bachelor's degree program
               next fall to meet a growing demand for personal financial planners, who help people
               manage their retirement accounts.
Rob Hammond: First to Defend his Dissertation in the Muma College of Business Doctor
                     of Business Administration programApril 17, 2017 Rob Hammond enrolled in the Muma College of Business' Doctor of Business Administration
               program because he wanted to research and revolutionize the way sales teams do their
               jobs.
You might be a successful organization if you have these traits - SportsBusiness JournalApril 17, 2017 I 'm using Jeff Foxworthy as my inspiration for this month's column. Foxworthy, famous
               for his "You might be a Redneck if" humor, was able to paint a picture that everyone
               could visualize and comprehend. I hope I'm able to do the same. Enjoy!
Want to be a personal financial planner? USF unveils a degree to help fill talent
                     pipeline - Tampa Bay TimesApril 14, 2017 Surveys seem to come out by the boatload and all say essentially the same thing.
               Too many people know diddly about money, investing, insurance, how to save, how to
               spend or borrow wisely, or how to prepare for retirement.
College chases lucrative field for new major - Business ObserverApril 14, 2017 The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business is introducing a new major
               in personal financial planning.
Troy Taylor Talks Coca-Cola Bottling, Distributing at Conversation With A CEOApril 13, 2017 Coca-Cola bottler and distributor Troy Taylor kept the room full of business leaders,
               USF alumni and faculty engaged during an hour-and-a-half chat Thursday morning.
Rick Linger Presented Invited Lectures on Software Behavior Computation - LenvioApril 13, 2017 Rick Linger, Lenvio CTO, recently presented invited lectures on software behavior
               computation to classes in the graduate programs at the Muma College of Business, University
               of South Florida, located in Tampa, Florida.
RIAs zero in on golden goose of client prospecting: entrepreneurs - InvestmentNewsApril 13, 2017 Advisers who like risk-tolerant, type-A clients are a fit with entrepreneurs
Nineteen Entrepreneurs Pitch Ideas at the Frank and Ellen Daveler Pitch Competition
                     Over the WeekendApril 11, 2017 The Muma College of Business this weekend was flush with young entrepreneurs who
               pitched their unique ideas for recognition and awards at the Frank and Ellen Daveler
               Pitch Competition.
2017's Best Places to Celebrate Easter - WalletHubApril 11, 2017 You know it's Easter when grocery stores devote special aisles to chocolate bunnies
               and marshmallow peeps while the dairy section is perpetually depleted of eggs.
2017 Tax Facts Infographic - WalletHubApril 10, 2017 No one likes Tax Day, except for accountants and Uncle Sam. In fact, disdain for
               filling out forms and forking over funds to the government drives many of us to contemplate
               some pretty kooky alternatives.
Steve Freedman, USF Alumnus and Office Furniture Magnate, is this Month's Guest at
                     the EMBA's Distinguished Speaker SeriesApril 7, 2017 Freedman, a 1980 graduate of the University of South Florida business college, stopped
               by to chat with executive MBA students last week as part of the Distinguished Speaker
               Series. He talked about his career, which, he said, literally started with $200 in
               graduation cash (he earned a bachelor's degree in finance) and a Sears' credit card
               that, in those days, was mailed out to every college graduate.
As National Recognition of Graduate Programs Grows, Muma College of Business Offers
                     New, Innovative OptionsApril 7, 2017 As the national academic rankings roll out year after year, more and more attention
               is being paid to the University of South Florida's graduate business degrees, including
               the most recent designation of the part-time MBA program moving up in the rankings,
               placing No. 56 in the nation among public universities.
Graduate Business Association to Host Dinner Around the World for International, Domestic
                     Grad StudentsApril 6, 2017 Part of the appeal of the University of South Florida campus is its international
               flavor. Some 5,000 international students are enrolled here, along with 200 research
               scholars. Combined, they represent more than 145 countries.
Faceless of the Game: Where have all the MLB superstars gone? - ESPNApril 5, 2017 How many active major leaguers rank among America's 50 favorite pro athletes? Twenty?
               Ten? Five? Try zero. Baseball has a marketing problem it must solve -- fast.
Capitalizing on Internet Sensations - WTSP NewsApril 5, 2017 USF marketing professor Robert Hooker says there's a reason this makes people spend
               their hard earned dollars, and once the calf is born... even more opportunities.
Hooper: Malls are more than retail centers - Tampa Bay TimesApril 5, 2017 I'm worried about what we lose if malls disappear, and I'm not talking about big
               sales and free food court chicken.
Real-time Tampa communications company automates business operations - 83 Degrees MediaApril 4, 2017 Software companies usually offer free trials that attract potential users of their
               software to their websites. But if that software is not really easy to use, the potential
               customers move on to other websites.
USF forum tackles online data and privacy concerns - Fox 13April 4, 2017 By now, most people have looked at something on Amazon, and then been bombarded by
               ads for that item on other websites.
Hundreds Attend the Florida Business Analytics Forum to Hear the Latest Developments
                     in Data Collection, Analytics and CreativityApril 4, 2017 The mantra that data never sleeps was hammered home during the inaugural Florida
               Business Analytics Forum at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business
               on Tuesday.
New Major in Personal Financial Planning to be Offered in the FallMarch 31, 2017 With the number of qualified financial advisors dwindling – and with the government
               poised to impose tighter regulations on the profession – the University of South Florida's
               Muma College of Business is moving forward with a plan to offer a new major in personal
               financial planning.
USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference Attracts Hundreds; Features Speakers,
                     Panelists from Across the NationMarch 30, 2017 The two-day conference, held in the USF Alumni Center, featured speakers and panel
               discussions of the latest trends in the rapidly evolving field were discussed during
               the two-day conference along with the growing importance of analytics.
New Online MBA Program Offers a Chance for Working Professionals to Get Their Graduate
                     Degree On Their Own TimeMarch 30, 2017 A new online MBA program that can enhance careers, boost salaries and make graduates
               the envy of all their bachelor's degree-holding friends begins this fall at the University
               of South Florida's Muma College of Business and two informational sessions held over
               the next couple of weeks are scheduled to illuminate the benefits of the new online
               degree.
2017's Most & Least Financially Literate States - WalletHubMarch 29, 2017 The issue of widespread financial illiteracy garnered significant attention in the
               aftermath of the Great Recession. The housing-market collapse and ensuing financial
               crisis served as a stark reminder of our societal obsession with debt as well as the
               dangers of fingertip financial access in the hands of under-informed consumers.
Alumni Spotlight: For Muma College of Business MBA Grad Linda Civitillo, The Road
                     to Success Was Long and WindingMarch 24, 2017 Business and marketing is and always has been in Linda Civitillo's blood, but after
               earning an Executive MBA from the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business
               – at the ripe young age of 43 – she is focused and her career is soaring.
Muma College of Business to Offer New Master's Degree Designed for Working ProfessionalsMarch 24, 2017 Most working IT professionals would relish the chance to earn a post-graduate degree,
               but the problem with this: They are working professionals.
SBDC at USF Celebrates Its Own Day With Mayoral ProclamationMarch 23, 2017 Business has changed dramatically over the last 37 years and America's Small Business
               Development Center (SBDC) Network has been there throughout. Since 1980, SBDCs—the
               nation's largest business assistance network—have helped aspiring and emerging small
               business owners achieve the American dream of entrepreneurship.
USF hosts third annual Sports and Entertainment Analytics Conference - The OracleMarch 22, 2017 From tracking where fans stop in a stadium to better locate potential spots for stores
               and restaurants to tracking probabilities of a game to develop innovative strategies,
               analytics have become an integral part of today's sports and entertainment industry.
Brand builder - Business ObserverMarch 17, 2017 Dennis Adamovich has built an impressive career in marketing by understanding his
               audience.
Muma College of Business Part-Time MBA Program Moves Up in National Rankings, Places
                     at No. 56 Among Public UniversitiesMarch 14, 2017 The part-time MBA program at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business
               jumped 10 points in national rankings from a year ago, cracking the top 100 for the
               first time and placing the program in the top third of U.S. universities, according
               to the U.S. News and World Report, which released the rankings Tuesday.
Hundreds Attend the Celebration of Free Enterprise Event Wednesday Honoring Sports,
                     Hospitality, Entertainment Magnate Sheila JohnsonMarch 9, 2017 Sheila Johnson, whose grace belies her hard-nosed business style, told a room full
               of high achievers that her career as a determined woman of firsts would not have happened
               without flexibility, tenacity and a knack for negotiation.
Speaker Of Sweden's Parliament Shares Thoughts With USF Students - WUSF NewsMarch 7, 2017 A boardroom in the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business may be
               the last place you expect a leader of a European country to turn up – but that's been
               the case twice in the last four months.
Troy Taylor, CEO of Coca-Cola Florida, to be the Next Guest at April's Conversation
                     with a CEOMarch 6, 2017 Though he is chairman and CEO of the largest Coca-Cola bottler and distributor in
               Florida – and among the top five in the nation – Troy Taylor says it's the little
               things, like relentlessly following the dream and building and maintaining relationships
               that make him a success.
Like a bull - Business ObserverMarch 3, 2017 Dez Williams came up with the idea for his watermelon juice company, Aquamelon, after
               he trained with friends for a 12.5-mile Tough Mudder obstacle course. They would go
               home and devour a watermelon after training, finding the juice refreshing after a
               long workout.
Muma College of Business in the Fall to Offer a New Major: Personal Financial PlanningMarch 3, 2017 With the number of qualified financial advisors dwindling – and with the government
               poised to possibly impose tighter restrictions on the profession – the University
               of South Florida's Muma College of Business is moving forward with a plan to offer
               a new major in personal financial planning.
Hackers Use Facebook Quizzes to Steal Personal Info - NBC NewsMarch 3, 2017 Security experts warn that hackers often use Facebook quizzes to access your personal
               information. WFLA's Lindsey Mastis reports.
SBDC Cautions Small Businesses About Cybersecurity; Offers Protection TipsMarch 2, 2017 Cybersecurity is a big scary unknown term to most small-business owners, but it is
               an issue that could cost them embarrassment, legal entanglements and significant amounts
               of money.
Intercollegiate Case Competition Featured Fake News, Other Vexing Issues at JobDivaMarch 1, 2017 The grueling 24-hour Florida Intercollegiate Case Competition, hosted
               this weekend by the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business, featured
               a study of a New York business vexed by fake news, retention of potential customers
               and pricing issues.
Improv Night for Business Freshmen Proves to Boost Interview, Communication SkillsFebruary 28, 2017 The group of mostly freshmen business students stand around a large room at the Juniper
               Poplar Hall dormitory on a recent evening, giggling, getting to know each other a
               little bit.
Muma prof: Businesses Rather than Government Will Save Us from Climate ChangeFebruary 27, 2017 In the face of global climate change, which brings with it the threat of catastrophic
               rising sea levels, extreme weather patterns and perhaps a crunch on water resources,
               there is some hope: A proliferation of businesses poised to lead the world out of
               the predicted end of days.
Muma Profs Travel the World, Bring Back Global PerspectivesFebruary 23, 2017 Some professors with the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business may
               seem to be skipping class lately, but they have pretty good excuses.
Workshop for Accounting Majors at the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Draws a
                     Special Guest: Lynn PippengerFebruary 18, 2017 The Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy in the University of South Florida's Muma
               College of Business celebrated a notable anniversary on Friday: It was two years ago
               to the day that Lynn Pippenger's name went up on the wall, thanks to a $10 million
               naming gift.
Students Who Are Good With Numbers Urged to Major in AccountingFebruary 17, 2017 If you want to make a career out of business but you're not sure what field to focus
               on, accounting just might be for you. That was the theme delivered to just over 100
               students, many of whom were still in high school, attending the Accounting Preview
               Day at the University of South Florida's Marshall Center.
Students, Professionals Gather at the Muma College of Business To Take a Third-Party
                     Risk Management Certification CourseFebruary 16, 2017 About 75 people, many University of South Florida students, are attending a three-day,
               third-party risk management certification course held in the Muma College of Business,
               learning how to protect clients who use other companies to perform some regular business
               functions.
Dennis Adamovich, USF alumnus and CEO of the College Football Hall of Fame, Talks
                     Career, Marketing Strategies at Conversations with a CEOFebruary 15, 2017 With football season coming to an abrupt end during overtime at Super Bowl LI, Dennis
               Adamovich, the uber-busy CEO of the College Football Hall of Fame and Chick-fil-A
               Fan Experience in Atlanta, found a moment to take a breath. So, what did he did he
               do with his free time?
Generous Naming Gift Results in a Name Change for the Doctor of Business Administration
                     offices, Now Known as the Mohamad Ali Hasbini DBA SuiteFebruary 13, 2017 The University of South Florida is the Hasbini family's home away from home. Both
               Mohamad Ali Hasbini, his wife, Sawsan, have earned degrees here and their three children
               either have USF degrees or are currently taking classes.
What are the best business credit cards for a new business?February 3, 2017Credit cards provide the best mix of flexibility and low transaction costs. - Sean LuxCredit cards are great for managing working capital and cash flow needs, but not for
                  major purchases that you cannot afford to pay off. - Laura Mattia
Muma College of Business to host the Florida Business Analytics Forum in April; Hundreds
                     expected to attendFebruary 1, 2017 Cutting edge business and corporate leaders know this: Data never sleeps. In fact,
               it grows exponentially with Internet browsing and purchasing, social media engagement,
               GPS traffic and health and business transactions that generate massive amounts of
               data; data that can be mined and used to make strategic decisions that move the bottom
               line.
Muma College of Business' Brightest Students Treated to Dinner, Pep TalksJanuary 31, 2017 Dozens of the brightest and most motivated freshmen at the University of South Florida's
               Muma College of Business were treated recently to dinner and inspiring speeches; talks
               telling them they are special because of their high grade-point averages and urging
               them to stay in college even when times are difficult.
Student teams a win-win-win for businesses, students and Florida SBDC networkJanuary 30, 2017 The Florida Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida
               working with professors on campus have come up with an innovative concept that helps
               students, the center and involved businesses.
Philicia Douglas, Group Sales Account Executive, Miami Dolphins - TeamWorkOnlineMediaJanuary 25, 2017 Philicia's advice is to go to grad school.
Florida Intercollegiate Case Competition Coming Up in FebruaryJanuary 25, 2017 The Florida Intercollegiate Case Competition (FICC), hosted by the University of
               South Florida's Muma College of Business, is soon approaching and the field is expected
               to be full.
Alumnus Spotlight: Mustafa Sagun's Career Has Been an Upward Spiral Since Earning
                     a Doctorate at USF 23 Years AgoJanuary 25, 2017 From those long-ago days of teaching undergraduate business courses at the University
               of South Florida while he worked toward a doctorate in finance, Mustafa Sagun has
               proven his worth many times over.
Info Systems Professor Donald Berndt Lands Externship with the Treasury DepartmentJanuary 25, 2017 Just as Muma College of Business marketing professor Mike Mondello returns to class
               from his Tampa Bay Rays externship – in the front office, not in centerfield – a second
               professor is getting ready to take his turn in the real world.
USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference Slated for March 29-30January 24, 2017 The technical side of sports and entertainment marketing takes center stage at the
               Annual University of South Florida Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference in March.
Finance Professor Dan Bradley receives a Fulbright Core Scholarship; Heading to Portugal
                     Next YearJanuary 23, 2017 Dan Bradley, a professor of finance in the University of South Florida's Muma College
               of Business, was awarded a Fulbright scholarship in January and becomes the fourth
               Muma business professor since 2015 to be honored with the prestigious Fulbright core
               scholarship and the fifth to be recognized by the auspicious program.
Muma College of Business Students Excel at Hackathon ChallengeJanuary 19, 2017 Competition was fierce among 20 enterprising University of South Florida students
               who wrapped themselves up with chatbots over the weekend, competing for a cash prizes
               in a Jabil-sponsored Hackathon.
UA faculty weighs whether to stay in sports bloc - Northwest Arkansas Democrat GazetteJanuary 19, 2017 Faculty members from the University of Arkansas helped found the Coalition on Intercollegiate
               Athletics, creating an organization that since 2002 has given professors at universities
               a voice on issues relating to college sports.
Sheila Johnson, Hospitality and Entertainment mogul, to be Honored at Celebration
                     of Free Enterprise fundraiserJanuary 13, 2017 Sheila Johnson, CEO of Salamander Hotels & Resorts and the first woman to own or
               be an ownership partner in three professional sports teams, is this year's honoree
               at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business Celebration of Free
               Enterprise, scheduled for March in downtown Tampa.
SBDC Offers Advice for Companies Looking to Win Government ContractsJanuary 13, 2017 The Florida Small Business Development Center at University of South Florida helped
               business owners reap some $65.5 million in government contracts in 2015, the most
               recent state statistics available.
Muma Donor to Create a Tampa Think Tank Dealing with South American Trade IssuesJanuary 13, 2017 The best way to create groundbreaking pro-trade polices involving the burgeoning
               markets in Latin America is by taking little steps, at least at first, said E.J. Otero,
               CEO and chairman of the board of the Course of Action Foundation.
How to Connect With Students in Your Online Classes - AICPAJanuary 10, 2017 Online classes have become popular, and with good reason. They enable students who
               work outside of school or have full schedules to attend class on their own time. However,
               teaching an online class has its challenges. Online, students can't see or talk to
               their classmates or the instructor.
Center for Entrepreneurship: Here are Some Success Stories - USF Center for EntrepreneurshipJanuary 10, 2017 To recognize the center and its remarkable work, here are profiles
               of 10 graduates who have used what they learned and lit out on their own to create
               their own thriving entrepreneurship opportunities.
2017 Summer Program for Business Students in Florence, ItalyJanuary 9, 2017 The Muma College of Business and USF World are sponsoring its 2017 six week Summer
               Program in the birthplace of the Renaissance - beautiful Florence, Italy.
Victor Poirier, developer, financer and marketer for the first artificial heart talks
                     to Executive MBA classJanuary 6, 2017 You may wonder why a master of mechanical engineering who built the first artificial
               heart was called upon to talk to an Executive MBA class, but there's more to Victor
               Poirier than just that life-changing invention.
Dennis Adamovich, CEO of the College Football Hall of Fame, will be the next guest
                     at the Conversation with a CEO seriesJanuary 6, 2017 Dennis Adamovich, CEO of the College Football Hall of Fame and Chick-fil-A Fan Experience
               in downtown Atlanta, returned to his old school Friday as a side trip to his real
               Tampa purpose: attending the 2017 College Football Playoff National Championship between
               Alabama and Clemson on Monday night at Raymond James Stadium.
Back to top
2016
Advisors Debate the Need for DOL Rule - Financial Advisor IQDecember 29, 2016 This article is a summary of a two-part series exploring advisor views on the DOL
               rule, after the November 9 presidential election result.
Muma College of Business Professors, Students Take Top Honors at WITS 2016 ConferenceDecember 21, 2016 A pair of University of South Florida Muma College of Business professors won prestigious
               awards at the annual Workshop on Information Technology and Systems conference.
Do This With Your Finger To Make Healthier Food Choices - Men's HealthDecember 20, 2016 Making the healthy snacking choice might be as simple as flicking a switch: You're
               more likely to choose healthy foods in a brightly lit room than in a dim one, a new
               study in the Journal of Marketing Research suggests.
Jabil Circuit is Sponsoring a Hackathon Focusing on Chatbots at USF's Muma College
                     of Business on Jan. 14.December 16, 2016 With the national narrative focusing on the computer hacking of political campaigns,
               you might raise an eyebrow to find out USF is hosting a hackathon in January.
S. Korean baseball teams should become more fan-centric: U.S. expert - Yonhap News AgencyDecember 14, 2016 South Korean professional baseball teams should strive to become
               more "fan-centric" to enjoy sustained success at the gates, a U.S. sports marketing
               expert said Wednesday.
Consider Business Schools That Provide Work Experience - U.S. News & World ReportDecember 12, 2016 Work-based MBA programs help students learn how to think like executives, experts
               say.
United Airlines to charge some customers for overhead bin space - News Channel 8December 8, 2016 United Airlines will soon start charging some its customers to use overhead bins
               on its planes. Beginning next year, travelers who buy United's cheapest tickets won't
               get to use the overhead bin.
USF Business Grad Does Good: Rich Martino, VP of Mondelēz, Returns to Address MBA
                     ClassDecember 6, 2016 Rich Martino still carries the swagger of a kid growing up in the Bronx, but it's
               softened a bit by a move to Florida with his family three decades ago to care for
               an ailing grandfather in New Port Richey.
USF Muma College of Business Holiday Greeting 2016December 5, 2016 We wish our entire USF Muma College of Business family - students, faculty, staff,
               alumni, donors, volunteers, and friends - a very happy holiday season. We had a great
               time creating this special holiday video greeting for you.
Tech giant - Business ObserverDecember 2, 2016 As CEO of a company that does $26.4 billion in annual sales, Bob Dutkowsky says his
               family is what keeps him grounded, reminding him he's just like everybody else.
CBIZ MHM Gift Creates a Teaching Fellowship in the Lynn Pippenger School of AccountancyDecember 2, 2016 CBIZ MHM, a Top 10 accounting and professional business services provider, has given
               a gift to the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business that will keep
               on giving for years to come.
Hundreds of local high school students attend USF's Big Data DayDecember 2, 2016 Hundreds of students from nine Hillsborough County high schools spilled into the
               University of South Florida this week to participate in the Muma College of Business
               Big Data Days.
Michael Duke, Retired Wal-Mart CEO, Pops in on Business Research ClassNovember 30, 2016 A classroom of business research students presenting their projects this week were
               treated to a special guest: Michael Duke, who, before retiring two years ago, ran
               the worldwide operations of Wal-Mart.
Tipping Well Because of Good Service? Study Shows There's More to it Than ThatNovember 30, 2016 According to a recently published article co-authored by a University of South Florida
               professor, the little billfold that contains your tab at the end of your meal may
               have more to do with how much you plunk down in a gratuity than you ever realized.
No-Cost Online Coding Program for USF Students - WFTS Tampa BayNovember 29, 2016 Something USF students should take advantage of tonight: a free online program and
               the opportunity to attend a coding boot camp. They are providing this service. Students
               and alumni interested in coding can enroll in the course.
Students learn how to pitch products in a "Shark Tank" formatNovember 28, 2016 How to sell products is the stuff of Carol Osborne's marketing class and she uses
               a "Shark Tank" team of student inquisitors posing as investors to poke holes in the
               pitches and rattle the pitchers.
How Fox Sports uses college students for an R&D lab - DigidayNovember 22, 2016 Earlier this year, students from the University of South Florida's sports management
               program were tasked with developing a multiplatform marketing strategy to get people
               to watch Tampa Bay Rays games on the Fox Sports Go mobile video app.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship Ranked Tops in the Southeast, 10th in the Nation - The Bradenton TimesNovember 21, 2016 The University of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship has the best graduate
               program in the southeast and is ranked No. 10 in the nation, according to new rankings
               released this week by Entrepreneur magazine and The Princeton Review.
Hernando County residents encouraged to spend locally on Shop Small Saturday - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 21, 2016 Local business leaders are urging consumers to save some dollars for Shop Small Saturday,
               which targets shoppers who might be jumping into frenzied holiday gift-buying on Black
               Friday at area malls.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship ranks alongside Harvard - whoistampabay.comNovember 20, 2016 The University of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship has
               the best graduate program in the Southeast and is ranked No. 10 in the nation by Entrepreneur magazine and The Princeton Review.
USF Graduate Business Program Named Number One in Southeast - Fox WTVTNovember 19, 2016 Some good news for the University of South Florida. Their business program has been
               named the number one graduate program in the southeast by Entrepreneur magazine.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship ranks alongside Harvard for graduate program - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 18, 2016 Entrepreneur magazine and The Princeton Review also ranked USF's Center for Entrepreneurship
               No. 10 in the U.S.
USF Grad and Top-Tier Exec Rich Martino to Speak to MBA students on Dec. 5November 17, 2016 Rich Martino, a University of South Florida business grad, who now is a top executive
               with one of the largest companies on the planet, is returning to his old school to
               talk to an MBA class.
Bob Dutkowsky - Conversations with a CEONovember 17, 2016 When Bob Dutkowsky enrolled in Cornell University, he had only one priority: to pitch
               for the Ivy League school's baseball team.
Students Recommend Stocks to Increase Their Managed Investment FundNovember 17, 2016 The well-prepared pitches of stocks delivered students in the Applied Security Analysis
               class to a roomful of real-life financial advisors and brokers did not go easily.
               It was a difficult room, as the professionals picked apart the proposals in language
               that only those in the world of finance can understand.
Anthropology and Marketing: A Marriage Made in Muma College of BusinessNovember 17, 2016 At first blush, the comingling of anthropology and marketing in a single course would
               seem to be a head scratcher; kind of like blending classes of partial differential
               equations and dodge ball. But beneath the surface, researchers are discovering, the
               disciplines of anthropology and the business of marketing really have a lot in common
               and are mutually beneficial.
USF Center for Entrepreneurship Ranked Best in the Southeast, 10th in the NationNovember 16, 2016 The University of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship has the best graduate
               program in the Southeast and is ranked No. 10 in the nation by Entrepreneur magazine
               and The Princeton Review.
Tampa Bay's entrepreneurial ecosystem? It's still young and could use a boost, new
                     study says - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 16, 2016 Professor Diana Hechavarria teaches entrepreneurship at the University of South Florida
               and is part of the academic team behind this study. She cited study findings that
               show Tampa Bay's warm weather and low cost of living are big appeals to entrepreneurs.
2016 Black Friday Freshness Report: Retailers Recycle About 1 in 10 Deals from 2015 - WalletHubNovember 15, 2016 Do some Black Friday deals smell stale to you? That's probably because they are.
               With all the hype around Black Friday, you'd expect retailers to wow their customers
               with new and better deals when the event rolls around again.
Soft skills are essential to success but hard to find in millennials - SportsBusiness JournalNovember 14, 2016 The term "soft skills" is a synonym for what we commonly refer to as "people skills."
               These can be summarized as personal attributes that indicate a high level of emotional
               intelligence.
Marketing prof Rob Hooker is the fourth Muma College of Business professor to be named
                     a Fulbright Scholar in two yearsNovember 14, 2016 Robert Hooker has spent most of his academic life focusing in supply-chain management
               and now the assistant marketing professor in the University of South Florida's Muma
               College of Business is taking his expertise to a new level as a Fulbright scholar
               presenting his research and making connections in Europe.
Tampa panel: How Trump will handle trade, infrastructure and security - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 14, 2016 A former NATO representative and the CEO of a multibillion-dollar manufacturing firm
               were among the panelists who speculated on how Trump might handle those challenges,
               during a discussion at the Oxford Exchange hosted by the Florida chapter of the German
               American Chamber of Commerce of the Southern U.S.
Fake Apps tricking online shoppers - WTSPNovember, 11, 2016 "Don't click on anything that is suspicious. Secondly, don't allow automatic installation
               and make sure you have the latest updates to your software," says Cyber Expert, Dr.
               Robert Hooker.
Veteran's DayNovember 10, 2016 Students, faculty and staff of the University of South Florida will stay home on
               Veteran's Day, or they will attend ceremonies and commemorations for those who have
               served in this nation's military. But not everyone.
EMBA Distinguished Speaker SeriesNovember 4, 2016 If you think a degree in accounting means long days hunkered down in front of a computer
               gazing over eye-numbing spreadsheets or punching an endless litany of numbers on a
               calculator, you haven't heard Kimberly Ross' story.
How to boost your buying power this Christmas - WFTS Tampa BayNovember 1, 2016 USF marketing expert Rob Hooker says watch out for the "Black Friday" bait and switch.
TV Viewing Habits May Predict Election Result - The Nevada SagebrushNovember 1, 2016 This year has proven to be difficult for polling, from the unexpected rise of Donald
               Trump's to an equally unforeseen Brexit. But two college professors may have found
               a surprising alternative — voter television viewing habits.
Sports can fix society's inequities and bind nation, ex-Lightning executive tells
                     USF students - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 27, 2016 The negative headlines coming out of the National Football League are symbolic of
               the times we live in, a top league executive said Wednesday night during a visit to
               the University of South Florida.
Lightning franchise never stops building its relationship with Tampa - TBO.comOctober 27, 2016 Forgive those who were slow to catch on. Hockey was a sport we didn't know we wanted
               — not helped by the fact the Bolts didn't spend their early years showing how not
               to do business. It's easy to forget now how unstable this franchise was.
What Do Our Athletes Really Learn? - Inside Higher EdOctober 26, 2016 Intercollegiate athletics programs, which are only justifiable on our campuses if
               they can offer significant learning experiences, should be assessed for their educational
               impact, argues Michael G. Bowen.
Football & FútbolOctober 26, 2016 Fans of football, considered by many to be emblematic of this American culture, and
               fútbol, what the rest of the world is hooligans about, were treated to some fascinating
               insider insights from a pair of heavy hitters Wednesday, in the latest installment
               of a popular and increasingly prominent lecture series put on by University of South
               Florida's Sport & Entertainment Management Program.
Citi contributes $25,000 for USF's Corporate Mentor ProgramOctober 25, 2016 Citi has contributed $25,000 to the USF's Muma College of Business's Corporate Mentor
               Program, a program aimed at first generation college students who excel in both leadership
               and business skills.
Griggs' focus centers on Lightning's next level - SportsBusiness JournalOctober 24, 2016 "He talked about wanting to build a world-class organization, like the Green Bay
               Packers — why couldn't we do that here in Tampa?" Griggs said.
DBA Students Receive International Research AwardsOctober 19, 2016 USF's Doctor of Business Administration program, debuting just two years ago, but
               is already building an international reputation for excellence. And its students are
               garnering research awards early in their academic careers, too.
Business Of Football And Fútbol To Be Discussed At USF - WUSFOctober 18, 2016 Executives from the most financially successful U.S. sports league and one of the
               up-and-coming leagues will speak at the University of South Florida next week.
Citi Contributes $25k for USF's Corporate Mentor ProgramOctober 17, 2016 Citi will provide volunteers and financial support for a program targeting students
               who are the first in their families to attend college and demonstrate leadership potential.
Graduate Case Competition Yields Innovative ResultsOctober 13, 2016 The non-profit organization Friends of the Riverwalk, which helps attract residents
               and tourists alike to the area, challenged a select group of Muma College of Business
               graduate students to devise a plan to improve the Tampa Riverwalk, using real-world
               partnerships, to bring more visitors to the downtown area.
USF Sport MBA Building Reputation for Job Placement FocusOctober 12, 2016 Four years ago, William Sutton made the drive back to Orlando from Tampa. He had
               been invited to discuss the possibility of upstarting a Sport and Entertainment graduate
               program at the University of South Florida, being the first of its kind at the school.
USF to Host NFL, MLS Executives for Lectures on Oct. 26 - The Bradenton TimesOctober 11, 2016 Two influential, national leaders in the professional sports industry - the chief
               operating officer of the National Football League and the commissioner of Major League
               Soccer - will discuss their experiences in the business of sports as part of a lecture
               series on Wednesday, Oct. 26, hosted by USF's Sport & Entertainment Management Program.
Study shows trading cards not far removed from trading stock - Fox 2October 8, 2016 Now a professor of finance at the University of South Florida, Williams and his colleagues
               recently used baseball cards to test a market trading strategy called momentum.
Sport and Entertainment Management MBA Lecture SeriesOctober 7, 2016 Executives from the National Football League and Major League Soccer will have a
               candid conversation about the business of professional sports
Conversation with a CEO: Kenneth FeldSeptember 30, 2016 In 2014, Forbes opened a story profiling Kenneth Feld by calling him the hardest
               working man in show business. The son of an entertainer who bought Ringling Bros.
               and Barnum & Bailey® Circus, Feld grew up under the big top and took over the business
               in the 1980s.
NFL, MLS represented at USF lecture series - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 30, 2016 Tod Leiweke, COO of the National Football League; and Major League Soccer commissioner
               Don Garber are the featured speakers at the event, sponsored by Fox Sports Florida
               and the Tampa Bay Lightning.
Study shows trading cards not far removed from trading stock - Fox 13September 23, 2016 A recent study by a USF professor pinpoints similarities between the stock market
               and the baseball card industry. It shows a common Wall Street investment strategy
               pays even larger dividends when employed in the sports card market.
Florida SBDC at USF staff win two state business awardsSeptember 22, 2016 Javier Marin, a business consultant and assistant director for the Florida SBDC at
               University of South Florida, won the Florida SBDC Network State Star Award during
               the opening day of the ASBDC National Conference in Orlando on Sept. 19.
People On The Move - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 20, 2016 Koehler will teach executives in the former Soviet Union about business next year,
               thanks to a Fulbright award to Belarus. Koehler, a USF Muma College of Business management
               professor, will teach in the Executive MBA program at the School of Business at Belarus
               State University.
Muma Marketing Department Ranked Among Best in the WorldSeptember 19, 2016 The Muma College of Business's Marketing Department at the University of South Florida
               is making great strides toward becoming one of the best in the world, and over the
               past three years, it has moved much closer toward that goal.
Is a recession looming for Florida and Tampa Bay? - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 16, 2016 After decades advising banks and other businesses at the center of Tampa Bay's financial
               community, Tampa securities lawyer Marty Traber is an old hand at reading economic
               tea leaves. Lately many of those leaves point to a slowdown, if not an outright recession.
Jeff Vinik among those investing $1 million in St. Petersburg startup - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 12, 2016 A group of startup investors that includes Jeff Vinik is investing $1 million in
               a St. Petersburg startup founded by a University of South Florida St. Petersburg graduate
               in entrepreneurship and rising player in local business startup circles.
Half billion available in Sarasota County contracts - Herald-TribuneSeptember 12, 2016 I was amazed to learn recently that Sarasota County spends half a billion dollars
               annually on purchasing various products and services.
USF in LondonSeptember 9, 2016 When Drake Goebelbecker got on a plane headed to London in June, he had no idea how
               a global advertising agency worked.
10 business card mistakes that can tank your credit - Yahoo! FinanceSeptember 7, 2016 Business credit cards can be a great way for small business owners to grow their
               companies and build credit. If they're not used properly, however, they can do more
               than create a financial black hole.
Amid Growing Scrutiny of Trust Accounts, Lawyer to Be Sentenced in $12M Scheme - Law.comSeptember 6, 2016 As more eyes focus in on how lawyers use trust accounts to handle client funds, a
               rare prosecution of a lawyer for improperly filtering large sums through such an account
               is set to take place today.
When seeing is believing - The OracleSeptember 5, 2016 Student escapes war, gains second chance at education
How nontraditional activation can work in a traditional game - SportsBusiness JournalSeptember 5, 2016 When considering a list of my favorite things, baseball and creatively activated
               partnerships rank high on my list. So when I find the intersection of these two things,
               it really draws my attention.
Fox Sports University Spring 2016 Class Project - YouTubeAugust 30, 2016 Experiential learning for USF's Sport & Entertainment Management students
FOX Sports Florida, USF team up for Rays 'Take A Seat' campaign - Fox SportsAugust 29, 2016 In the Spring of 2016, a team of FOX Sports Florida and FOX Sports Corporate Marketing
               executives traveled to the University of South Florida to present Sport and Entertainment
               Management MBA students with their FOX Sports University project.
Fulbright professor headed east - The OracleAugust 28, 2016 Jerry Koehler, a professor in USF's college of business administration and Fulbright
               Award winner, will be teaching at Belarus State University starting in February. He
               won't escape the cold during his four-month stay, and it's not something he is looking
               forward to.
Veinticinco años del Programa para Becas Latinas de la Universidad del Sur de la Florida
                     (USF) - Libre OnlineAugust 23, 2016 Una selección del estudiantado universitario que presenta necesidades económicas
               y logra altos rendimientos docentes puede alcanzar el programa de becas para latinos
               de la Universidad del Sur de la Florida.
Can we encourage healthier choices by the way we display food options? - Oxford University PressAugust 22, 2016 Does the way food is displayed influence the choices you make? Given worldwide concerns
               related to obesity, it is critical to understand factors that affect healthful consumption.
Baseball cards provide test for financial theories in USF researcher's studyAugust 18, 2016 As a kid trading baseball cards, Jared Williams spotted a few similarities between
               his hobby and his dad's career as a stockbroker.
It's no secret: Dogs want their lives to include baseball - SportsBusiness JournalAugust 15, 2016 As a pet owner who works full time, I face the same problem as millions of other
               "pet parents." After being away from my dog all day, do I want to come home, walk
               and feed her, and leave again so that I can go to a baseball game?
HealthAxis Group, USF partner on Parkinson's Research ProjectAugust 8, 2016 Researchers will be able to study whether a group of commonly used drugs affect the
               onset of Parkinson's disease, thanks to a new grant partnership between the University
               of South Florida and HealthAxis Group.
Longtime USF professor receives Fulbright award to teach in BelarusAugust 5, 2016 USF Professor Jerry Koehler will be teaching executives in the former Soviet Union
               about business next year, thanks to a Fulbright award to Belarus.
USF partners with Jabil to offer intensive analytics course to employeesAugust 3, 2016 While every company is interested in harnessing the power of analytics and data science
               to improve its business, employees with a deep understanding of how to interpret those
               mountains of data are few and far between.
Trigaux: Tampa Bay's rising tech scene helps secure nonstop San Francisco flight - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 26, 2016 "As a former resident and entrepreneur in Silicon Valley prior to coming to USF,
               the ability to have a direct flight is a strong step in the right direction to building
               opportunities not only for investment in our community but also for stronger collaborations
               and partnerships with San Francisco-based companies, both early-phase as well as established
               companies," says Michael Fountain, director of the University of South Florida Center
               for Entrepreneurship. "Let's hope that these flights will be heavily used in both
               directions."
Momentum, greed and baseball cards - St. Louis Post-DispatchJuly 23, 2016 To paraphrase Walter Matthau on poker, it seems baseball card collecting combines
               all the worst aspects of capitalism (and investing) that have made our country so
               great.
Federal Grant to Help USF Muma College of Business Train Tech Workers - USF NewsJuly 18, 2016 Faculty will design month-long boot camps to improve the skills of young adults and
               low-wage workers in the Tampa Bay area.
Quantitative and qualitative research: A marriage of necessity - SportsBusiness JournalJuly 18, 2016 Being involved in sports consumer research for almost 35 years, I have seen lots
               of things that pass for research but are woefully inadequate.
Florida researchers draw parallels between baseball cards, stock markets - Florida TrendJuly 15, 2016 A new study finds that the market for baseball cards shows some of the same kinds
               of anomalies, or factors, as the stock market.
SAFT ON WEALTH-Momentum, greed and baseball cards: James Saft - DailyMail.comJuly 13, 2016 a new study finds that the market for baseball cards shows some of the same kinds
               of anomalies, or factors, as the stock market. Baseball cards that out- or under-perform
               in value tend to keep on rising or falling, a phenomenon called momentum.
How the NL won baseball's star wars - ESPNJuly 12, 2016 "Just about all the young stars in major markets are in the National League," said
               Bill Sutton, one of America's pre-eminent sports-marketing minds, and the director
               of the Sports and Entertainment Management MBA program at the University of South
               Florida.
Manatee homeless center's economic impact raises eyebrows - Herald-TribuneJuly 11, 2016 Homeless service centers get a bad wrap. But a new study of the Turning Points center
               in Bradenton shows why that reputation should change.
USF professor to work with Rays in new faculty externshipJuly 7, 2016 A USF Muma College of Business professor will take his research out of the classroom
               and into the ballpark this August as he heads to work for the Tampa Bay Rays.
How Stock Markets are Like Baseball Cards - equities.comJuly 7, 2016 I still have a Ken Griffey Jr. Rookie Card. To be honest, I don't even know where
               the thing is, but I hope it is it worth a ton of money at this point (although I doubt
               it).
Turning Points a valuable community asset - Bradenton HeraldJuly 5, 2016 South Florida's Muma College of Business study finds organization worth more than
               $43 million to county
Is There Room for Sports to Get Even More Commercialized? - The AtlanticJune 13, 2016 Sports fans know as well as anyone that marketing, like nature, abhors a vacuum.
               On practically every previously unmarked surface in stadiums and arenas—floors, walls,
               fences, scoreboards—corporate sponsors have planted their flags.
The Godmother with heart: Filippell defines sports job placement - SportsBusiness JournalJune 13, 2016 Providing a communication channel and a service that helped connect employers and
               potential employees — including myself — more than 100,000 times is a remarkable accomplishment.
Dining under bright lights linked to healthier food choices - MinnPostJune 1, 2016 When people dine in dimly lit environments they are more likely to make unhealthy
               food choices than when they eat in a brighter venue, according to a new study published
               in the Journal of Marketing Research.
USF alumna and PSCU executive travels all seven continents in under a decadeMay 31, 2016 Sheila Porter brings the same tools she uses in her project management career to
               plan her world travel expeditions - using spreadsheet organization, financial management,
               and people skills - with a level of attention to detail that explains how she has
               been so successful at both.
Setting the Mood for Dinner Might Be Sabotaging Your Diet - ShapeMay 31, 2016 Dimmed lights. Soft music. Does a restaurant's ambience make you more likely to order
               unhealthy food?
The Surprising Way Lighting Can Affect What You Eat - Huffington PostMay 31, 2016 It's no secret that sticking to your healthy diet is tougher when you eat out. There
               are the massive restaurant portion sizes, and sneaky calorie bombs (buffalo chicken
               salad, we're looking at you!) — and now new research suggests ambient lighting can
               trick you into eating more too.
Memorial Day 2016 By The Numbers - WalletHubMay 30, 2016 Memorial Day is more than just a day off, an excellent occasion for a backyard barbeque
               or a chance to travel, though all of those awesome staples ultimately speak to the
               holiday's true spirit.
Bright lit restaurants encourage healthy food choices - Business StandardMay 29, 2016 Those dining in well-lit rooms are about 16-24 per cent more likely to order healthy
               foods than those in dimly lit rooms, researchers said.
Bright lit restaurants encourage healthy food choices - The StatesmanMay 29, 2016 Next time you visit a restaurant, make sure it is well-lit, as researchers, including
               one of Indian-origin, have found that people are more likely to order healthy food
               if they are dining in bright light.
Dim Lighting Makes You Eat More at Restaurants - Food & WineMay 27, 2016 A study found that diners seated in darker rooms ordered dishes with 39 percent more
               calories on average.
Candlelit dinners lead to over indulgence - XposéMay 27, 2016 Trying to be healthy when eating out? Choose a well lit restaurant.
Diners more likely to order healthy foods in well-lit rooms - CTV NewsMay 26, 2016 Diners order healthier items from the menu and consume fewer calories when they are
               in a well-lit room, according to a study in the Journal of Marketing Research.
Want to lose weight? Turn up the lights! People eating in bright restaurants are '25%
                     more likely to order healthy food' - DailyMailMay 26, 2016 For those trying to shed pounds, eating out can prove a difficult dieting hurdle
               to overcome. Calorific dishes, tempting desserts and cocktails can wreak havoc with
               the best of intentions.
The Surprising Way Lighting Can Affect What You Eat - HealthMay 26, 2016 Researchers have found the brightness of a room matters more than you think.
Bright lights, healthy choices - ScienceDailyMay 26, 2016 Dining in dimly lit restaurants has been linked to eating slowly and ultimately eating
               less than in brighter restaurants, but does lighting also impact how healthfully we
               order? A new research study suggests that it does.
Is there a limit to fan interest in Kentucky basketball? - KentuckySportsMay 21, 2016 "Making people feel important and making them feel part of something," Sutton said.
               "That's what Cal does."
CFDC hosts Polk Goes Global 2.0 - The LedgerMay 20, 2016 Last year, Polk County businesses exported about $2 billion dollars in goods and
               services throughout the world. David Petr, president and CEO of the Central Florida
               Development Council, thinks Polk can do even better.
Tampa Bay Lightning fall to NBA's Golden State Warriors in bid to be professional
                     sports' best business team - Tampa Bay TimesMay 18, 2016 The Tampa Bay Lightning fell short Wednesday night in its bid to be named the top
               professional sports business team of the year by SportsBusiness Journal, a national sports business industry publication.
Recent USF Alumna Establishes $10,000 ScholarshipMay 17, 2016 Some people find success by chance. Some people find it by choice. Some people, like
               USF grad Ashley Washington, find it with a little bit of both.
In high-tech era, high-touch still counts, no matter the market - SportsBusiness JournalMay 16, 2016 The Thunder is not averse to technology and uses beacons, online preference centers,
               mobile apps and so forth. The team just wants to capitalize on as many personal interactions
               as possible.
Tampa Bay Lightning could be professional sports' business team of the year - Tampa Bay TimesMay 16, 2016 The Lightning is fighting this season to hoist the franchise's second Stanley Cup.
               But this week Tampa Bay has the chance to win its first championship in a different
               kind of contest: the business of professional sports.
Gift from Ali Hasbini names Doctor of Business Administration office suiteMay 4, 2016 Hasbini wanted to recognize the business school for its role in his business success.
               That desire moved him to donate a naming gift for the suite of offices that houses
               the doctoral program of which he is a member. The offices will be known as the Mohamad
               Ali Hasbini Doctor of Business Administration Suite and will be located in the space
               that was the former home to the Management Department.
The New Entrepreneurs - Resident MagazineMay 2016 Oftentimes we miss opportunities that are right 'in our backyard' simply because
               we don't know to look for them, nor do we have the awareness to recognize the specific
               opportunities.
KPMG Faculty FellowshipApril 28, 2016 As one of the Big Four accounting firms, KPMG has long been a company where the brightest
               and most competitive students want to work and intern. But less widely known are KPMG's
               contributions to scholarship at USF through faculty fellowships.
Ybor's LiveArt Laboratories wins first place in 8th Fintech Business Plan CompetitionApril 22, 2016 A space for artists and tech geeks alike to create something new is the latest winner
               of the Fintech Business Plan Competition.
USF accounting grad among top performers on 2015 CPA examApril 21, 2016 A USF accounting grad is among 75 certified public accountant candidates nationwide
               honored for their scores on the CPA exam.
Eye disease diagnosis, hand sanitation, and self-powered battery take top prizes in
                     Florida Healthcare Innovation Pitch CompetitionApril 12, 2016 University of South Florida PhD student Gabriel Saffold's idea for the next big thing
               in healthcare came from his young son's beloved toy.
Bieber puts you off your food? Use him to lose weight! - Times of IndiaApril 12, 2016 It turns out that listening to Justin Bieber or eating in a dimly-lit room are just
               a few of the many ways to lose weight. Read on to find out what they are.
Positively Tampa Bay: USF Professor Honored - ABC Action NewsApril 6, 2016 American Marketing Assoc Tampa Bay Chapter names USF Professor Jill Solomon "Educator
               of the Year!"
Entrepreneur U - Business ObserverApril 1, 2016 Likewise, the USF Center for Entrepreneurship has always been multi-disciplinary,
               open to all students. "They approach problem-solving in ways our business students
               may not," says Fountain.
Small businesses taking off in South County - Herald-TribuneApril 1, 2016 By the time Jamie Lovern started making her signature candles, she was burned out
               on corporate America.
USF Changes MIS Degree, Emphasizes Business Analytics and Information SystemsMarch 30, 2016 New program offers more coursework in analytics, business intelligence, and project
               management.
Retailers know more about you than you think - WTSP.comMarch 30, 2016 But, it's not necessarily a bad thing. Hooker says, "They want all of that shopping
               information, all that demand information so they can provide the best possible product
               to the right consumers."
Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition seeks next generation of health ideasMarch 29, 2016 On Wednesday, April 6, college student innovators from across the state will share
               their ideas for revolutionizing the quality and delivery of healthcare at the fifth
               annual State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Pitch Competition
Jabil CEO conversation kicks off new event seriesMarch 29, 2016 Jabil Circuit CEO Mark Mondello runs a company that far surpasses the term of "local
               business:" a publicly traded company, the St. Petersburg-based Jabil is one of the
               world's largest contract manufacturers, with more than 180,000 employees throughout
               102 locations in 28 countries.
U.S. News Data: Job Rates, Starting Salaries for MBA Grads - US News & World ReportMarch 16, 2016 Find out which schools' alumni make almost $150,000, on average, when they start
               their first jobs.
How technology puts fans in the game, measures enjoyment - SportsBusiness JournalMarch 14, 2016 For the past four months, University of South Florida students and faculty have been
               involved with Enthrall Sports and the Tampa Bay Lightning to create and test a fan-friendly
               app that transforms the game experience by involving the fans in the game presentation,
               delivery and evaluation of the experience.
USF Business, English Researchers Team Up to Create Educational AppMarch 10, 2016 Interdisciplinary project is awarded $50,000 NSF Innovation Corps Grant
Gift from Naples entrepreneurs could help next generation of innovators - Naples Daily NewsFebruary 27, 2016 A $2.9 million gift from Naples entrepreneurs will help the University of South Florida
               launch a statewide effort to educate the next generation of startup leaders.
Multi-million dollar gift launches USF's program for next generation of start-ups - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 26, 2016 The estate and cash gift will seed the new Frank and Ellen Daveler Entrepreneurship
               Program at USF's Muma College of Business.
Analytics conference delves into behind-the-scenes business of sports and entertainmentFebruary 26, 2016 The changing nature of the business and how to better understand it through analytics
               was the basis for discussion at the University of South Florida Sport & Entertainment
               Analytics Conference, powered by Ticketmaster.
A spotlight on MBA programs in Florida - Florida TrendFebruary, 26, 2016 Across Florida, universities are rolling out a variety of MBA programs to attract
               working professionals who see the value in the degree. Those who make the effort to
               advance their business education find the experience gives them big-picture thinking
               skills that employers value.
2016's Best & Worst Cities for Football Fans - WalletHubFebruary 24, 2016 William Sutton answers some questions about the best football cities.
University Beat TV: Episode 2 - YouTubeFebruary 21, 2016 This week on University Beat you'll learn how the University of South Florida has
               become one of the top research schools in the nation and what that means to Tampa
               Bay. You'll see how some of that research is benefitting police departments and the
               citizens they serve. And you'll meet a pioneer the first African-American student
               to attend USF. These stories and much more this week on University Beat.
Charitable Gift Totaling $2.9 Million to Help Young Entrepreneurs in FloridaFebruary 18, 2016 USF's Muma College of Business will launch the Frank and Ellen Daveler Entrepreneurship
               Program
Pink pricing: Why women pay more than men - WTSPFebruary 16, 2016 A recent study from New York's Department of Consumer Affairs looked at 800 items
               that have clear male and female versions. On average the female version cost seven
               percent more.
Measure for Measure: Shakespeare's advice to sports marketers - Sports Business JournalFebruary 15, 2016 It might seem like an odd topic, but according to literary critic Harold Bloom, "Shakespeare
               has taught us to understand human nature, and he has a presence even in the most unlikely
               contexts."
NASCAR's Matt Kenseth, Daytona Speedway President Joie Chitwood visit USF - Bright House Sports NetworkFebruary 14, 2016 NASCAR entered the classroom at the University of South Florida Thursday. Two-time
               Daytona 500 winner Matt Kenseth and Daytona International Speedway President Joie
               Chitwood met with USF MBA students and talked racing, marketing and even Twitter.
Professional racing stars Kenseth and Chitwood visit USFFebruary 11, 2016 Two of professional car racing's stars - one on the racetrack, the other in the boardroom
               - visited USF on Wednesday in advance of the Daytona 500 later this month, chatting
               with students about the business and engineering of the sport.
Kenseth in college spotlight on Daytona tour - NASCAR.comFebruary 11, 2016 Two-time Daytona 500 champion Matt Kenseth drew a captive audience while visiting
               the University of South Florida campus in Tampa on Thursday as part of the Road to
               Daytona tour.
NASCAR educates at USF - WTSPFebruary 11, 2016 Today, two-time Daytona 500 champ and speedway president met with students at USF.
Eighth annual Fintech Business Plan Competition opens for applicationsFebruary 10, 2016 Applications are open for the 2016 Fintech Business Plan Competition, whose winners
               have gone on to launch a watermelon water manufacturer, a competitive paintball field,
               and a medical modeling company, among other businesses.
USF conference to bring sport, entertainment leaders to Tampa - 83 Degrees MediaFebruary 9, 2016 The University of South Florida will welcome key decision makers and business leaders
               in the sports and entertainment industries to Tampa on February 18-19.
USF Researcher: TV Viewing Habits Can Predict Presidential Voting Outcome - WUSFFebruary 2, 2016 "The days of surprise about actual election outcomes in the big data world are likely
               to be fewer in the years ahead, at least to those who may have access to such data."
Donors get dibs in higher ed - University BusinessFebruary 2016 Managing the expectations that come with philanthropy
USF Accounting Professor Appointed to Governmental Financial Reporting Task ForceJanuary 28, 2016 A USF business professor has been named to the board that advises on technical issues,
               project priorities and other matters that affect standard setting for state and local
               governments' accounting and financial reporting.
Sport & Entertainment Analytics Conference hosted by USF coming to TampaJanuary 27, 2016 Business leaders who deal with data and use it to drive key decisions in the sport
               and entertainment industries will discuss industry trends and the importance of analytics
               in downtown Tampa in February.
Lightning, USF team up for lecture series - Fox SportsJanuary 23, 2016 The Tampa Bay Lightning embrace the Tampa community by teaming up with the University
               of South Florida to put together a lecture series.
USF marketing professor awarded Fulbright Distinguished Chair positionJanuary 21, 2016 University of South Florida Marketing Professor James Stock, who is a Distinguished
               University Professor and Frank Harvey Endowed Professor of Marketing, was selected
               to receive an award from the Fulbright Scholar Program on Tuesday.
Lectures Series Brings Giants in the Sport and Entertainment Industries to USF - USF NewsJanuary 19, 2016 From building corporate culture, to leveling the sports playing field across genders,
               to building a better pizza, the USF community heard wisdom from giants in the sport
               and entertainment industries.
Former WNBA President Orender gives insight into gender in sports - The OracleJanuary 15, 2016 Former WNBA President and business executive Donna Orender spoke at USF's Sports
               and Entertainment Management Lecture Series Thursday evening.
Papa John's CEO tells USF group how he mixes pizza and sports - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 14, 2016 John Schnatter's pizza empire is firmly hitched to Americans' obsession with football. Papa
               John's is one of the NFL's most-recognized sponsors. It has inked deals with more
               than two-thirds of the league's teams.
'Papa' John bridges gap between sports and marketing - The OracleJanuary 13, 2016 As part of the Sports and Entertainment Management MBA Lecture Series, John Schnatter
               — founder and CEO of Papa John's Pizza — sat in a chair on the stage of the Marshall
               Student Center Oval Theater ready to tell his story about a small pizza company that
               flourished into a national powerhouse using sports to market his product.
Sports & Entertainment Series Serving Up Papa John, Ex-WNBA Commish - WUSFJanuary 12, 2016 In its previous two editions, the University of South Florida Sport and Entertainment
               Lecture Series has featured a variety of guests from both worlds, ranging from agent
               David Falk and BET co-founder Sheila Johnson to ESPN analyst Andrew Brandt and Women's
               Tennis Association CEO Stacy Allaster.
Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series - WUSF RadioJanuary 12, 2016 The USF Muma College of Business is preparing for its third Sport and Entertainment
               Lecture Series on January 13th and 14th.
NBA, WNBA executives set for USF lecture series - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 7, 2016 A nationally known entrepreneur and NBA/NHL executive are among the guest speakers
               scheduled for the third annual USF Sport and Entertainment Lecture Series, to be held
               next week on campus.
Marketing majors seek golfers for USF ScramBull tournament - The Tampa TribuneJanuary 6, 2016 The Bulls are set to hit the links at a golf tournament aimed to support the University
               of South Florida's American Marketing Association chapter, which in March strives
               to raise its ranking at the AMA international conference in New Orleans.
USF Continues to Climb in Education-Related Rankings - Tampa Bay ReporterJanuary 5, 2016 In the latest of several national rankings, the University of South Florida ranks
               well as a good place to seek affordable education.
'Papa John' highlights USF's upcoming sports and entertainment lecture series - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 5, 2016 Annually, the series, presented by FOX Sports Florida, brings high-level industry
               professionals to USF to discuss global sports and entertainment industry topics.
100+ Sports Business Professionals Discuss Hot Topics, Bold Predictions For 2016 - ForbesJanuary 5, 2016 Last year, I posed two questions to 85-plus sports business professionals heading
               into 2015: what are the trends and hot topics to follow in the industry and also,
               how will the different niches within sports (legal, business, fantasy, media, social,
               etc.) change over the next 12 months?
Back to top
2015
The science of eating - new ideas for a healthier 2016 - Yahoo! NewsDecember 30, 2015 The first issue of The Journal of the Association for Consumer Research out of Cornell
               University Food and Brand Lab has brought together some of the newest ideas in the
               science of eating for its January 2016 issue.
2015 emerges as a big year for philanthropy dollars aimed at Florida universities
                     — including USF - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 29, 2015 To say it has been a very good year for philanthropic giving to certain Florida universities
               would be an understatement.
This simple weight loss tip is guaranteed to help you shed the pounds - MirrorDecember 29, 2015 "The findings of our research show whether you eat the same food with a spoon or
               a fork has strong implications for how much food you eat.
USF, a favorite among Indians - The HinduDecember 28, 2015 During their recent visit to India, Ralph C. Wilcox, provost and executive vice-president,
               and Moez Limayem, dean of Muma College of Business (USF's business school), talked
               about the newly-launched APJ Kalam Fellowship for Indian students and what makes the
               U.S. such a lucrative education destination for Indians.
ISDS graduate student project benefits Bradenton homeless centerDecember 22, 2015 Homeless service centers across the country face ugly stereotypes. People think the
               work they do is an uphill battle; that centers bring down neighborhood property values;
               that after treatment and assistance, homeless people will be back on the street. True
               or not, such stereotypes can do real damage.
Consumer Wise: Holiday gift card buying etiquette - News 13December 21, 2015 "When people don't have the time or information to find the right gift, they see
               gift cards as a safe choice, and they're also very convenient," Mena said.
Want to Work in Sports? Get Comfortable With Analytics - The Business of SportsDecember 16, 2015 Bill Sutton, sports industry legend, has steered the University of South Florida
               towards developing an analytics track in its graduate program.
2015 AIS Fellow Award Winners - Association for Information SystemsDecember 15, 2015 The AIS Fellow Award recognizes individuals who have made outstanding contributions
               to the information systems discipline in terms of research, teaching and service.
ISDS professor recognized with AIS Fellow awardDecember 14, 2015 USF Muma College of Business ISDS Professor Alan Hevner has been named a 2016 Fellow
               of the Association of Information Systems, an honor given to leaders in the information
               systems research field.
Local business briefs - Highlands TodayDecember 13, 2015 Ever wanted to start your own business but not sure how to get started? The Florida
               Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida, located at South
               Florida State College, will host a Starting Your Business Seminar.
Manipal Global Inks Agreement With University of South Florida - EducationWorldDecember 12, 2015 On December 7, Bengaluru headquartered Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed
               an agreement for collaboration with the Muma College of Business, University of South
               Florida (USF), USA, in Mumbai. This agreement aims at facilitating collaboration and
               cooperation to enhance student experience at both entities.
Manipal Global signs MoU with Open University UK - Press Release WatchDecember 11, 2015 This MoU will allow collaboration between Manipal ProLearn -- the certification arm
               of MaGE -- and other parts of the Manipal Education Group and the Open University
               (OU) in the areas of content and technology.
Son of migrant workers graduating college with two degrees - Bay News 9December 10, 2015 Marcos Gonzalez is about to graduate with not one, but two degrees from the University
               of South Florida.
Manipal Global signs MoU with Open University UK - Not in TownDecember 10, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed a MoU with Open University, UK, one
               of the world's oldest open universities, at a high profile event at the ITC Windsor
               Hotel in Bangalore on Thursday.
Manipal Global signs MoU with Open University UK - India BloomsDecember 10, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed a MoU with Open University, UK, one
               of the world's oldest open universities, at a high profile event at the ITC Windsor
               Hotel in Bangalore on Thursday.
Manipal Global signs MoU with Open University UK - Just Earth NewsDecember 10, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed a MoU with Open University, UK, one
               of the world's oldest open universities, at a high profile event at the ITC Windsor
               Hotel in Bangalore on Thursday.
Manipal Global Inks Agreement With University of South Florida - PR NewswireDecember 9, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed an agreement for collaboration with
               the Muma College of Business, University of South Florida (USF), USA, in Mumbai today.
               This agreement will facilitate collaboration and cooperation to enhance student experience
               at both entities.
Manipal Global Inks Agreement With University of South Florida - Sify.comDecember 8, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) has signed an agreement for collaboration
               with the Muma College of Business, University of South Florida (USF), USA, in Mumbai.
Ranking of Top 50 Doctorate in Business Management Programs for 2016 Released by Top
                     Management Degrees -PR NewswireDecember 8, 2015 The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business, Tampa, FL came in first,
               followed by Harvard University Business School, Boston, MA, and the University of
               Florida's Warrington College of Business, Gainesville, FL.
Ranking puts USF Muma doctorate program above Harvard, UF - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 8, 2015 A new ranking of management degree programs shows a doctorate program at University
               of South Florida Muma College of Business in Tampa is the best in the country.
La. Tech faculty team selected for NSF Pathways to Innovation Program - The News StarDecember 8, 2015 In addition to the Louisiana Tech team, teams from Binghamton University – SUNY,
               California State University-Northridge, The City College of New York – CUNY, Florida
               A&M University/Florida State University, Grand Valley State University, Portland State
               University, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, South Dakota State University,
               University of New Hampshire, University of North Alabama, University of South Florida,
               Western Carolina University, and Western Kentucky University were selected for the
               2016 Pathways to Innovation Program.
Manipal Global Inks Agreement With University of South Florida - Pocket News AlertDecember 8, 2015 Manipal Global Education Services (MaGE) signed an agreement for collaboration with
               the Muma College of Business, University of South Florida (USF), USA, in Mumbai today.
               This agreement will facilitate collaboration and cooperation to enhance student experience
               at both entities.
Manipal Global inks agreement with University of South Florida - newKerala.comDecember 7, 2015 The agreement will facilitate collaboration and cooperation to enhance student experience
               at both entities.
FAMU-FSU College of Engineering Selected for Entrepreneurial Program - WCTV.comDecember 7, 2015 The college is one of 14 teams selected nationwide. The University of South Florida
               is the only other Florida university to participate in the program.
Where would the Rays go? If talks OK'd, we might know in 2016 - Tampa TribuneDecember 6, 2015 "While the population has definitely changed in the past five years, the corporate
               environment has not," said Sean Lux, a University of South Florida assistant professor
               of entrepreneurship who served on an ABC Coalition subcommittee. "There is not the
               corporate environment in downtown St. Petersburg that would be spending a lot of money
               on suites."
Tourism in the Highlands - Highlands TodayDecember 5, 2015 "Some of our tourism businesses may want do some planning, building for success,"
               said David Noel, a University of South Florida small business development counselor.
               "We can help you assess where you are now, and help you grow."
Papa John, MLS commissioner and others to speak at third Sport & Entertainment Lecture
                     Series in JanuaryDecember 4, 2015 This January, the USF Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series presented by Fox Sports
               Florida and the Tampa Bay Lightning will feature top executives in the sport and entertainment
               industries - the head of Major League Soccer, former head of the WNBA, CEO of the
               Philadelphia 76ers, and the pizza mogul best known as Papa John.
Tampa Bay wins rare chance to assess health of its emerging start-up scene - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 2, 2015 In addition to White, director of UT's Lowth Entrepreneurship Center, the academic
               team includes University of South Florida assistant professor of entrepreneurship
               Diana Hechavarria, as well as researchers representing the London School of Economics
               and George Mason University, Indiana University and Lund University in Sweden.
Experts say Black Friday sales numbers trending down - ABC Action NewsNovember 27, 2015 USF marketing professor, Dip Biswas says the luster of Black Friday has been wearing
               off for years. Shoppers are growing wise to great deals both in-store and online throughout
               the year.
Is Black Friday relevant anymore? - WTSP.comNovember 24, 2015 Dr. Robert Hooker, University of South Florida marketing professor, says it's different
               now. "It's changed. It's not Black Friday anymore. It's the shopping season of Thanksgiving
               week."
Are you getting strange friend requests on Facebook? - WTSP.comNovember 23, 2015 University of South Florida information systems professor Grandon Gill says there's
               no definitive answer as to why people who you don't know are requesting to be your
               friend, but you should be cautious.
USF graduate entrepreneurship education ranked 11th nationallyNovember 20, 2015 It is the program's ninth consecutive year ranked by The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur
               magazine.
Jeff Vinik talks sports, philanthropy at USFNovember 9, 2015 Just before his 50th birthday, the then-hedge fund manager was living in Boston wondering
               about his future. "I'm turning 50 years old, what am I going to do for fun the rest
               of my life?" he said to a friend. Then he decided: "I'm going to buy a hockey team."
Taking it In: 'Transformative' gifts channeled into 'soft skills' - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 6, 2015 A $25 million gift from Les and Pam Muma to the USF College of Business last year
               first allows the College of Business to go beyond what it does routinely, and to make
               a bold promise: a job for every student when they graduate or shortly after.
Vinik to lecture on success, sports - The OracleNovember 3, 2015 Jeff Vinik, owner of the Tampa Bay Lightning and Bay area leader, will speak at USF
               on Thursday in a sold out event.
Do outlets have better deals than department stores? - WTSP.comOctober 29, 2015 Deal hungry shoppers are eagerly stopped by the new Tampa Premium Outlets on Thursday
               looking for deep discounts.
USF: Now if football would just cooperate - The Tampa TribuneOctober 28, 2015 We're well into that season. Note the flags — UF, FSU, USF, Auburn, Georgia, LSU
               — flying from porches. Notice how many conversations begin with the less-than-grammatical,
               rhetorical question: "How 'bout them ...?"
Homecoming speaker series features outgoing Women's Tennis Association CEOOctober 23, 2015 The branding of tennis - especially women's tennis - might bring to mind soft clapping,
               graceful athletes, and glamour. But, as the demographics and generations of fans and
               athletes change, the brand of women's tennis has changed as well.
Sports management club hosts esteemed alumni - ocolly.comOctober 22, 2015 An entrepreneurial spirit is crucial in the sports management world. That was the
               overbearing message Bill Sutton from the University of South Florida, Andy Gillentine
               from the University of South Carolina and Curt Waugh from the San Diego Padres had
               for the students in the Sports Management Club at Oklahoma State University on Thursday
               night.
USF part-time MBA ranked 11th public program in nationOctober 20, 2015 The University of South Florida's part-time MBA is No. 11 among public schools in
               the nation, continuing to rise in new rankings released by Bloomberg Businessweek.
Feds target casino money laundering - Arizona Daily StarOctober 17, 2015 The river of cash flowing through casinos can attract drug traffickers looking to
               launder their profits, but authorities in Southern Arizona and across the country
               are stepping up efforts to keep dirty money from mixing with clean.
Analyze this! - SportsBusiness JournalOctober 12, 2015 The ideas, insights and individuals driving the data explosion in sports
USF researchers: TV viewing habits can predict elections - WFLA-TVOctober 9, 2015 Researchers at the University of South Florida believe that the tv shows we watch
               can help predict presidential elections.
Bolts build business partnership with bulls - The OracleSeptember 30, 2015 Some Lightning season ticket members may not know they're sitting next to potential
               business partners while enjoying a hockey game at Amalie Arena, but a new program
               from the Tampa Bay Lightning and USF could help to bridge the gap.
Jeff Vinik honored at 24th Celebration of Free EnterpriseSeptember 29, 2015 Tampa businessman Jeff Vinik has many accolades attached to his name: business visionary,
               community leader, generous philanthropist. This past week, he added another: the 24th
               Honoree of the Celebration of Free Enterprise.
New chipped credit cards designed to protect against fraud, identity theft - ABC Action NewsSeptember 24, 2015 If you haven't gotten a new credit card with an embedded chip in the mail, you should
               be getting one any day now. The new technology is designed to protect you from identity
               theft and hacking.
Lightning, USF Introduce the Bolts Business Alliance - Tampa Bay LightningSeptember 23, 2015 The Tampa Bay Lightning and the University of South Florida are proud to announce
               a new initiative, the Bolts Business Alliance, which aims to connect business professionals
               year round through the Lightning.
Business Scholarships - WUSFSeptember 22, 2015 The recent USF Muma College of Business Scholarship Luncheon honored nearly 175 students
               who received almost 450-thousand dollars in awards.
Angry TECO shareholders file suit, say sale price not high enough - The Tampa TribuneSeptember 22, 2015 TECO Energy, its board of directors and the organization's new Canadian parent company
               face a shareholder's suit that claims the offer of $27.55 per share wasn't a fair
               price for the Tampa utility.
USF credit union program gives students future to bank on - WTSPSeptember 22, 2015 You could call it banking for students -- by students. A new, and innovative program
               at the University of South Florida is putting business majors in charge of the campus's
               credit union.
USF opens first student-run financial services center - The OracleSeptember 21, 2015 After a ribbon-cutting ceremony Monday, the USF Federal Credit Union (FCU) will begin
               a new era of student-run services for the branch located in the Marshall Student Center.
USF credit union preps future financial service workforce - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 17, 2015 There will be a notable difference in the newly renovated branch of USF Federal Credit
               Union that opens next week on the University of South Florida campus.
Largo resident praised for contributions to library, region - TBNweekly.comSeptember 16, 2015 Largo resident and retired Raymond James Financial executive Lynn Pippenger added
               the Citizen of the Year award to her résumé during the 63rd annual Central Pinellas
               Chamber of Commerce Meeting and Awards Breakfast on Sept. 8 in Sand Key.
Business Success Center - WUSFSeptember 14, 2015 For the third time in the last twelve months, the University of South Florida Muma
               College of Business has received a multimillion dollar donation from an alumnus.
USF grad student----- Impossible is Nothing - YouTubeSeptember 14, 2015 Sam Bridgman USF grad student
USF grad student fighting disease, shares inspiring message - BayNews 9September 13, 2015 Sam Bridgman , who suffers from the debilitating disease Friedreich's Ataxia, is
               pursuing his dream of working in professional sports through an MBA program at the
               University of South Florida.
Experts discuss Iran nuclear deal during USF forum today - The Tampa TribuneSeptember 9, 2015 Against the backdrop of congressional debate on the Iran nuclear deal, the University
               of South Florida is bringing together current and past diplomats and military leaders
               to hash out the pros and cons at a forum today beginning at 8:30 a.m.
Moving Forward with President Genshaft - The OracleSeptember 8, 2015 Before USF President Judy Genshaft, the campus was covered with sandy lots and lacked
               much of the vibrant landscaping that, today, lies between buildings that look upon
               a completely different campus.
Under new policy, Tampa Bay Lightning to monitor selling habits of season ticket holders - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 7, 2015 Throughout last season's Stanley Cup playoff, the Tampa Bay Lightning acted aggressively
               to ensure its fans had first dibs on playoff tickets over those from opposing teams.
University of South Florida Business School Receives $10.9 Million - Philanthropy News DigestSeptember 6, 2015 The University of South Florida has announced a gift of $10.85 million from alumnus
               Barron (Barry) Gift Collier III ('82) and his wife, Dana, in support of student success
               and career preparedness programs.
Collier scholarship benefits USF business students who face uphill battle - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 4, 2015 More than 70 students at University of South Florida's Muma College of Business have
               Barry and Dana Collier to thank for helping launch their careers.
Meet the Dean - USF NewsSeptember 4, 2015 Dean Moez Limayem has seen significant progress and change since joining the University
               of South Florida to lead the Muma College of Business.
Barron Collier III gives USF $10M for work-ready school - Suffield TimesAugust 29, 2015 For the fifth time prior to now, the University of South Florida has acquired a present
               of $10 million or extra — this time, to determine a complete program designed to ensure
               college students are able to enter the world of labor.
Big donation given to USF - Bay News 9August 28, 2015 The University of South Florida just got a multi-million dollar donation for its
               College of Business. Barry and Dana Collier donated more than 10 million dollars.
Tampa Bay flood-affected businesses can get emergency financing and loans - Tampa Bay Business JournalAugust 28, 2015 Gov. Rick Scott has activated Florida's Small Business Emergency Bridge Loan Program,
               in an effort to help businesses and families recover from severe storms and flooding
               in the Tampa area in early August.
USF gives new hope to driven student with rare disease - The Tampa TribuneAugust 28, 2015 A worn poster hangs in Sam Bridgman's bedroom, a black-and-white photo of a triumphant
               Muhammad Ali after a boxing match, with the caption "Impossible is nothing."
USF Muma College of Business gets $10.85 million gift - Tampa Bay Business JournalAugust 27, 2015 Barron (Barry) Collier III and his wife, Dana, have given a $10.85 million gift to
               the University of South Florida — money earmarked to support student achievement.
Collier family's $10.9 million donation will help USF business students - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 27, 2015 The University of South Florida's Muma College of Business got a $10.9 million shot
               in the arm that will put the names of Barry and Dana Collier atop the college's student
               success program.
Collier family donates $10.85 million to University of South Florida - Naples Daily NewsAugust 27, 2015 The prominent Collier family name in Naples is behind one of the largest gifts ever
               made to the University of South Florida's business school.
Student Success Goal of $10 Million USF Business Gift - WUSFAugust 27, 2015 The start of a new school year brings yet another multi-million dollar donation to
               the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business.
USF Supporters Barron and Dana Collier Give $10.85 million gift to support student
                     success at the USF Muma College of BusinessAugust 27, 2015 The University of South Florida announced today that it has received a $10.85 million
               gift from Barron (Barry) Gift Collier III and his wife, Dana Collier, to name a unit
               of the business school that focuses on student success and career preparedness programs.
Tournament officials, USF team up to study economic impact of Valspar Championship - Tampa Bay Business JournalAugust 27, 2015 A team of University of South Florida business students have spent the past year
               evaluating the economic impact of the Valspar Championship in Tampa Bay.
2015's Healthiest Housing Markets - WalletHubAugust 26, 2015 Housing's back. Indeed, the very same industry that sent the U.S. economy into freefall
               during the not-so-distant past is on its feet again — and expectedly has Americans
               worried that an overheating market will escort us back into recession.
College of Business expected to receive another large donation - The OracleAugust 25, 2015 The year of 2015 is a good one for fundraising at USF.
Financial experts advise avoiding panic after stock market plunge - ABC Action NewsAugust 24, 2015 No way to tell if three-day dip predicts future
USF program in Peru graduates third cohortAugust 11, 2015 When USF partnered with USIL in 2011, it was the first -- and is still the only --
               U.S. business program to offer an undergraduate, AACSB-accredited degree program taught
               in English in South America.
State pension plans putting politics above retirements - ReutersJuly 31, 2015 State public pension funds love buying shares in local companies, but it is not so
               much a matter of "buying what you know" as "buying shares of companies with political
               clout."
USF student research program a win-win with partners like Citi, Chase - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 31, 2015 In Tampa Bay, a trend in higher education is to find valuable ways to prepare students
               entering the workforce.
Sports Business Journal discusses Rays use of USF students - Tampa Bay Baseball MarketJuly 30, 2015 It seems the Rays are using students from the USF Sports MBA program like they do
               relief pitchers from the Durham Bulls – as low-cost talent who can be cycled in and
               out while they are cheap.
Making the most of its connections - SportsBusiness JournalJuly 27, 2015 How the University of South Florida leverages local ties to garner national attention
               for its upstart sports MBA program
Publix among companies challenged to retain millennial workers - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 17, 2015 For years, Publix Super Markets captured accolade after accolade for being one of
               the best places to work in the United States.
Get a sneak peek at Amazon's "Prime Day" deals - WFTS Tampa BayJuly 14, 2015 Amazon and Walmart are giving us a first look at some of the deals they plan to offer
               Wednesday to customers.
Holding white-collar crime accountable - The OracleJuly 12, 2015 To train students for the rising demand for forensic accounting, USF launched a new
               graduate certificate program in Compliance, Risk and Anti-Money Laundering this summer,
               which was recently featured in a blog on the Wall Street Journal.
University Mall could be cornerstone to revitalization around USF - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 10, 2015 Commuters heading down E Fowler Avenue near the University of South Florida these
               days might notice some subtle hints of change along the North Tampa thoroughfare.
Florida SBDC Network Announces Winners of 2015 Performance Excellence Awards - Florida Small BusinessJuly 8, 2015 State, Regional Winners Recognized for Efforts in Support of Florida Businesses
Computer glitches lead to worries about cybersecurity - Fox 13 Tampa BayJuly 8, 2015 "We heard several incidents of United Airlines having to hand-write boarding passes,"
               said traveler James Dailey, who arrived at Tampa International Airport from Newark.
Small Business Development Center helps McClane's Country Garden - Fox 13 Tampa BayJuly 8, 2015 "I have to give credit to the SBDC at USF. They will help us. They have come many
               times to check the place and to give us a lot of ideas."
Florida SBDC At USF Employee Wins State Award - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 8, 2015 Stacey Pierce of Plant City, marketing and communications officer for the Florida
               Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida, was recently
               named Employee of the Year for the Florida SBDC Network.
USF students behind latest marketing campaign for Tampa Bay Rays on Sun Sports - Fox SportsJune 30, 2015 Learn more about FOX Sports University and go behind the scenes of this year's 'My
               Homefield Advantage' campaign created by University of South Florida students.
Management grad invents product to train tomorrow's baseball playersJune 26, 2015 A recent Muma College of Business graduate is combining a love for baseball and entrepreneurship
               to bring a new sports product to the market.
Why Tampa Bay executives go back to school for USF doctorate - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 26, 2015 Unlike the standard doctorate of philosophy in business, this program is one of 11
               in the country to target executives still working full time, business professor Grandon
               Gill said.
Executive MBA Students Study Abroad in ChinaJune 22, 2015 With a recent study abroad trip to China, USF's Executive MBA students came back
               with more than photos and souvenirs – They returned with a better understanding of
               what it takes to succeed in international business.
Movers and Shakers: Two USF Student Veterans Selected as Tillman Scholars - The Bradenton
                  TimesJune 16, 2015 The University of South Florida and Pat Tillman Foundation announced today that two
               students have been selected as 2015-16 Tillman Scholars. Mary Lynn Conroy, an MBA
               student, and John Pasciak, a student in the Doctor of Pharmacy program, are the recipients
               of this year's scholarships.
Where the Tampa Bay Lightning go from here - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 15, 2015 The Tampa Bay Lightning didn't win the Stanley Cup, but this playoff
               run has put the business side of the organization in a great position for next year.
Compliance, Risk, and Anti-Money Laundering Program - WINS-AMJune 12, 2015 University of South Florida becomes a first school in the nation with a graduate
               certificate  program training people specifically to fight money laundering.
University To Train Money Laundering Experts for Banks - The Wall Street JournalJune 11, 2015 Banks, facing increased pressure from regulators to stop drug lords, corrupt officials
               or terrorists from moving money illicitly, will soon have a new source of talent to
               help in their fight.
Lightning helps ignite record Stanley Cup ratings - Tampa Bay TimesJune 10, 2015 Chicago took the first game. Tampa Bay stole back the next two. But NBC won all three. The
               network and the NHL are enjoying record U.S. television ratings as the Tampa Bay Lightning
               battle the Chicago Blackhawks in the Stanley Cup final.
Unionization and the Creativity Conundrum - The New York TimesJune 9, 2015 In 1954, union membership represented 28 percent of all workers in the United States.
               As of last year, that figure is down to 11 percent. These statistics are alarming
               for union advocates. If current trends continue unions very well could be on the verge
               of extinction.
Knowing when to bring team merchandising back home - SportsBusiness JournalJune 8, 2015 Whether an organization should consider owning and running its own in-venue team
               merchandise store is not an easy question because it is a situational decision and
               certain factors influence that decision.
Lightning Owner Wants to Build to Last, in Tampa and on Ice - The New York TimesJune 7, 2015 As a money manager, Jeff Vinik made hundreds of millions of dollars by taking big
               bets on undervalued assets. But when he turned 50, he wanted to do something else.
               He did not play golf and could visit only so many museums.
USF Muma College of Business professor awarded Core Fulbright grantJune 5, 2015 USF Professor Grandon Gill recently received one of academia's most prestigious awards.
               But the research for which he received the Core Fulbright U.S. Scholar grant is more
               than just academic - he is helping universities in Africa teach students how to use
               technology in their business and personal lives.
USF Federal Credit Union invests in students' future after remodel - The OracleJune 3, 2015 The USF Federal Credit Union reopened recently in the Marshall Student Center and
               is scheduled to be run exclusively by students in the future via a partnership with
               the Muma College of Business.
Lightning's ticket limits stir serious debate, as well as howls - The Tampa TribuneJune 3, 2015 A lawsuit involving Tampa's football team has helped give its hockey team the authority
               to tell some fans what they can wear to a game at Amalie Arena. The lawsuit, filed
               by a fan who cried "unconstitutional" over security pat downs at Tampa Bay Buccaneers
               games, made it to a federal appeals court in 2007 and helped clarify the meaning of
               a ticket.
Cybersecurity, fraud headline USF Accounting Circle ConferenceJune 1, 2015 The accountants who attended USF's Accounting Circle Conference this month came away
               with a wealth of information, from how to keep bank accounts safe from cybercriminals
               to the varying state laws on collecting sales tax from remote internet retailers.
Software company learns as it grows with SBDC business assessment - SBDC FloridaMay 31, 2015 "SBDC provided our financials in a format that made it much easier to visualize and
               to make decisions – that was huge for us," he said. "A big realization to us revolved
               around receivables and cash flow."
National designation for USF to turn research into commercial products, launch start-ups - Phys.orgMay 20, 2015 The University of South Florida has been named an I-Corps Site by the National Science
               Foundation (NSF), becoming the second site in Florida and one of only three dozen
               institutions around the country to earn the designation.
USF Marketing Professor's Research Impacts Consumer Decision Making - USF NewsMay 19, 2015 Marketing Professor Dipayan Biswas recently received the Academy of Marketing
               Science Outstanding Marketing Teacher Award.
Entrepreneurs expand future of business - The OracleMay 17, 2015 Entrepreneurship has always been a strong value in the U.S., one that lends itself
               to innovation and pushes for new businesses.
Starbucks app users targeted by hackers - WTSPMay 14, 2015 Hackers are at it again. This time, allegedly targeting Starbucks customers who pay
               using the mobile app. Dr. Grandon Gill, a cybersecurity professor at the University
               of South Florida, says the breach is a big deal.
Pam and Les Muma honored as Lightning Community Heroes - Tampa Bay LightningMay 12, 2015 The Tampa Bay Lightning honored Pam and Les Muma as the 48th Lightning Community
               Heroes of the season during the first period of tonight's Game 6 contest against the
               Montreal Canadians. The Mumas, who received a $50,000 donation from the Lightning
               Foundation and the Lightning Community Heroes program, will donate the money to the
               University of South Florida Sport and Entertainment Management Program.
Crime Trend: Crooks cloning credit cards - WTSPMay 7, 2015 Right now, thieves are secretly slipping into wallets all over the Bay area. You
               won't know your credit card has been cloned until it's too late.
The bottom line on Winston: It's all about money - Tampa Bay TimesMay 1, 2015 When the Tampa Bay Buccaneers drafted quarterback Jameis Winston, the franchise did
               more than bet its future on his skills, talent and work ethic.
Medical modeling company wins 7th Fintech Business Plan CompetitionApril 24, 2015 A medical 3D printing company came out on top in a "Shark Tank" style competition
               at the Muma College of Business, taking home $15,000 for their company.
New cooperation opportunities with the University of South Florida (USF) - The Bonch-Bruevich Saint-Petersburg State University of TelecommunicationsApril 24, 2015 The Dean of the Muma College of Business (University of South Florida – USF), professor
               Moez Limayem visited the Bonch-Bruevich St. Petersburg State University of Telecommunications
               (SPbSUT) on April,16, 2015.
Community Spotlight: $15,000 Prize at Stake for USF Students in Fintech Business Plan
                  Competition - The Bradenton TimesApril 19, 2015 USF students with great business ideas don't have to wait for their big break on
               "Shark Tank." Instead, they have a chance to win $15,000 with the Fintech Business
               Plan Competition.
Sports & entertainment professionals talk data at USF analytics conferenceApril 16, 2015 Whether sports teams want to connect with fans, entertainment companies work to develop
               a ticket pricing structure, or are trying to figure out the peak time to hold a hot
               dog race in order to sell more hot dogs, big data and analytics can hold the key.
5 things to start the day - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 16, 2015 Tampa's Fintech is sponsoring a "Shark Tank"-style competition for University of
               South Florida students on Friday afternoon, with a $15,000 prize at the end.
Eileen Rodriguez Rocks - USF Alumni VoiceApril 16, 2015 When business consultant Eileen Rodriguez went on vacation to Iceland, she traveled
               with members of USF's Geology Alumni Society. She couldn't have chosen better companions.
Fintech Business Plan Competition makes USF students' business dreams into realityApril 14, 2015 USF students with great business ideas don't have to wait for their big break on
               "Shark Tank."
Bucs, Lightning, Rays not playing games when it comes to analytics - Tampa Bay TimesApril 10, 2015 Moneyball-style analytics isn't just being used on the field anymore. Off the field,
               data analysis is increasingly being used by sports franchises to keep fans engaged,
               loyal and spending money.
First IdeAlytics Fest emphasizes intersection of creativity, analyticsApril 9, 2015 The Center for Analytics and Creativity at the Muma College of Business hosted the
               first IdeAlytics Fest on Thursday, April 2.
Students win $17,500 in prize money in third State of Florida Healthcare Innovation
                     CompetitionApril 3, 2015 A USF undergraduate mathematics major won $10,000 Thursday for having an innovative
               healthcare idea: the ability to manage disease pathology using cloud-based computer
               analysis.
USF to hold annual government small business conference - The Tampa TribuneMarch 31, 2015 A conference that in 2013 helped small businesses in this region secure $49 million
               in government contracts is scheduled for May 6.
Years-old Al-Arian terror case in limbo - The Tampa TribuneMarch 30, 2015 Retired FBI Agent Kerry Myers, who was the lead agent in the Tampa investigation,
               said he has no inside information about what is happening in Virginia. But he noted
               that figuratively, defendants charged with contempt hold the keys to their cells.
Jihadi e-book advises sleeper cells - The Tampa TribuneMarch 30, 2015 The e-book "is more of a propaganda piece aimed at inciting Muslims in Europe to
               act as lone wolves in support of the Islamic State," said Kerry Myers, a former FBI
               supervisory special agent who specialized in bomb forensics and assisted operations
               in Afghanistan.
State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition offers students $10,000 prizeMarch 27, 2015 What does a breath-actuated glucose monitoring system, polymer-hinged finger brace,
               and a wheelchair home navigation system have in common? They're all inventions by
               Florida university students designed to meet a need in the healthcare industry.
Campus-based, Student-Managed Credit Union to Allow USF Business Students Executive
                     Internship Opportunities in Banking, Finance, and MarketingMarch 25, 2015 A New Executive Internship Program at USF Federal Credit Union Planned
Agents' chatter in Osmakac sting skirts line between protection, entrapment - The Tampa TribuneMarch 21, 2015 "For entrapment to work, it requires more than the government merely providing the
               defendant with an opportunity to commit the crime," Myers said. "It's not just providing
               the opportunity. For an entrapment defense to work, they have to show the government
               pressured or induced or actually created the actual intent to commit the crime.
Moffitt physician, MBA alumnus, reduces waste for cancer centerMarch 20, 2015 Physician Tim Kubal's helps cancer patients fight their disease at Moffitt Cancer
               Center. But that's just his "day job" as a doctor. In his other role at Moffitt, the
               2013 USF MBA alumnus works to help patients spend less time in the waiting room and
               more time getting the life-saving medical attention they need.
Trigaux: 10 Tampa Bay projects we can't afford to screw up - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 20, 2015 Most promising are special USF, University of Tampa and area community colleges that
               increasingly tailor education to reflect the market demand for specialty workers.
               My latest favorite: In Tampa, USF Business School's brand-new program in Anti-Money
               Laundering.
ESPN, NBC Sports Executives among Speakers for USF Sport & Entertainment Analytics
                     Conference April 9-10March 12, 2015 Event also features analytics experts from the Lightning, Rays, Bucs and Orlando
               Magic
Muma College of Business ranked among Best for Vets for second yearMarch 9, 2015 For military veterans seeking a business education, the University of South Florida
               Muma College of Business is among the top 30 programs for veterans in the nation for
               the second year running.
How One Alums' Big Pledge Influenced Another Alum to Give Big: A Case Study - Inside PhilanthropyMarch 5, 2015 Now, USF has recently announced that $10 million more is headed to the Muma School
               of Business, towards scholarship and student recruitment at its School of Accountancy.
What Lynn Pippenger's $10 Million Gift Means to USF's School of Accountancy - WUSFMarch 3, 2015 USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Director Uday Murthy talks about the three
               programs Pippenger's $10 million gift to the school will support.
School of Accountancy - WUSFMarch 3, 2015 Thanks to a $10 million gift from a retired Raymond James Financial executive, another
               University of South Florida business school has a new name.
University of South Florida Receives $10 Million Gift - Philanthropy News DigestMarch 1, 2015 The University of South Florida has announced a $10 million gift from alumnus Lynn
               Pippenger in support of scholarships and student recruitment efforts at its School
               of Accountancy at the Muma College of Business.
USF small business center offers entrepreneurship certificate program - The Tampa TribuneFebruary 25, 2015 The University of South Florida's Small Business Development Center is teaming up
               again with USF Connect to host a six-part series on the basics of starting a business.
Tech Data CEO shares successful business traits with Executive MBA studentsFebruary 20, 2015 Recently, Dutkowsky shared the wisdom he has gained from years as an executive in
               the tech industry with students in USF's Executive MBA program.
Pippenger gifts $10 million to USF School of Accountancy - FICPA News FlashFebruary 19, 2015 The University of South Florida (USF) recently announced that its School of Accountancy
               will be named for retired Raymond James executive Lynn Pippenger, a longtime supporter.
Sport & entertainment management students win national competitionFebruary 19, 2015 Students in USF's Sport & Entertainment Management program won a national case competition
               this month, impressing judges with their plan to woo millennials to racing events
               -- at the USF program's first appearance in a national competition.
Pippenger donates $10M to USF - Business ObserverFebruary 18, 2015 Faculty working in the University of South Florida's School of Accountancy will need
               new business cards now that the institution has been renamed to honor a $10 million
               donor. - See more at: http://www.businessobserverfl.com/section/detail/pippenger-donates-10m-to-usf/#sthash.7tWBWW0u.dpuf
New USF accounting school namesake a quiet storm for biz women - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 18, 2015 "I was taught to do three things," she told the crowded atrium. "One, always give
               back – in time, treasure and talent. Two, I had to save some of my money. And three,
               I could spend some. I still do those same things today."
USF School of Accountancy Named After Lynn Pippenger - WFTSFebruary 17, 2015 Today was a big day at the University of South Florida. Officials naming the School
               of Accountancy after retired Raymond James executive, Lynn Pippenger.
USF Accounting School Takes Name of Successful Alum - WUSFFebruary 17, 2015 Now, another long-time USF donor is stepping up. The college's School of Accountancy
               is now named "the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy," after the former Raymond
               James executive gave $10 million to the school.
USF to Name its School of Accountancy to Honor Long-time DonorFebruary 17, 2015 Recognizing gifts totaling more than $22.5 million, the school will now be known
               at the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy
Lynn Pippenger makes $10 million gift to School of Accountancy - USF:UnstoppableFebruary 17, 2015 The University of South Florida announced today that its School of Accountancy will
               be named for Lynn Pippenger, a long-time supporter.
USF accountant school gets $10M from Raymond James alum - The Tampa TribuneFebruary 17, 2015 Lynn Pippenger led off remarks she gave at USF on Tuesday with a lesson learned early
               in life, around age 4 or 5, when she earned a small allowance.
USF alumnus and supporter Lynn Pippenger donates $10M to School of Accountancy - Accounting TodayFebruary 17, 2015 The University of South Florida (USF) announced today that its School of Accountancy
               will be named for Lynn Pippenger, an MBA alumnus and long-time supporter, following
               a $10 million donation.
USF expected to unveil large gift to Muma College of Business - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 16, 2015 The University of South Florida said it will make a "significant announcement" regarding
               its Muma College of Business today, an event expected to introduce a new donor and
               a fresh commitment of millions of dollars to the USF business school. USF offered
               no details about the donor.
USF's Doctor of Business Administration Classes Begin - USF NewsFebruary 11, 2015 The first class to enroll into the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) program
               at USF's Muma College of Business is hitting the books in their first semester back
               to school. For many of the returning students participating in the program, it's been
               more than 20 years since they have been in a classroom on a college campus.
Engaging the Corporate Community - BizEd MagazineFebruary 10, 2015 Moez Limayem, dean of the University of South Florida Muma College of Business, shares
               the school's strategies for embedding faculty and students in the local business community.
How teams, venues can enhance the 'sizzle' rather than 'steak' - SportsBusiness JournalFebruary 9, 2015 During my University of South Florida graduate class trip to Los Angeles last month,
               we met with representatives of Legends to provide the students with a better understanding
               of the consulting space in sports and entertainment.
'Fifty Shades of Grey' comes out of hiding and into big business - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 4, 2015 From a more practical business standpoint, word of mouth is huge and helps move anything
               from Harry Potter to Fifty Shades. If your friends are buying something, it's an automatic
               sale.
A Surge in Entrepreneurial Thinking - Florida TrendFebruary 2015 All manner of college disciplines - from engineering to the arts - have incorporated
               entrepreneurship into their teaching.
USF awarded grant to study cybersecurity - WTSPJanuary 28, 2015 Cybercrime is epidemic. Proof can be found in the massive hack attacks on the information
               systems of retail stores prior to Christmas that exposed the sensitive information
               of millions of people.
USF cybersecurity program gets $300k boost - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 28, 2015 The National Science Foundation is giving University of South Florida $300,000 to
               teach students cybersecurity using actual cases.
Taste again, with feeling: an update on food texture research - FEI-OnlineJanuary 26, 2015 Recent innovations in food texture include studies that examine the relationship
               between food texture and perceived calorie content as well as perceived saltiness,
               the characterization of an alternative source of pectin with advantages over citrus-derived
               pectin, and the use of bovine proteins to improve the texture of gluten-free bread.
Daily Fantasy Sports, is it Gambling or Addictive? - WTSPJanuary 19, 2015 "The fact that there is a skill component to this allows them to justify it is not
               gambling that could be debatable," said USF Associate Director of Sport and Entertainment
               Management Dr. Michael Mondello.
Legendary sports agent speaks about storied careerJanuary 15, 2014 If you want people to like you, don't look for a job in the sports industry. That
               advice came from Michael Jordan's former sports agent, David Falk, who runs the FAME
               agency and was a guest speaker at the USF Marshall Center Oval Theater as part of
               the second annual USF Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series.
Iconic sports agent traces path to the top - The OracleJanuary 15, 2015 Sports agent great David Falk spoke Wednesday night in the Marshall Student Center
               Oval Theater to hundreds of people to close out the USF Sports and Entertainment Lecture
               Series, sponsored by Fox Sports Florida and Tampa Bay Lightning.
Innovator decodes new tech generation in USF lectureJanuary 15, 2015 Omniscience, omnipresence, and omnipotence are qualities that in the past were typically
               only spoken of in reference to a deity. But today, said academic and innovator Don
               Marinelli, the newest generation has all these powers at their fingertips with technology.
Leading entrepreneur Sheila Johnson speaks at USFJanuary 14, 2015 As the embodiment of many firsts -- first black woman to be owner or partner in three
               professional sports teams, first African-American female billionaire -- Sheila Johnson
               knows first-hand how difficult it can be for women to succeed in sports, and in business,
               and in life.
Feld Entertainment CEO shares insights from globalized family companyJanuary 14, 2015 Producing a 145-year-old live show means being ready to embrace change, says CEO
               Kenneth Feld, who runs the company that owns the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey
               circus. After all, what other show besides the circus has been around that long?
Female sports billionaire makes way in man's world - The OracleJanuary 13, 2015 Sheila Johnson spent a lifetime breaking the entrepreneurial glass ceiling through
               which no other African-American woman had ever shattered.
College football playoff success creates calls for expansion - Chicago TribuneJanuary 13, 2015 "They didn't leave any money on the table, but they're going to need a bigger table,"
               said sports consultant Bill Sutton. "There's more money out there. Expansion's got
               to be on the horizon."
College Football Playoff Success Creates Calls for Expansion - Bloomberg BusinessJanuary 13, 2015 College football's first playoff, instituted after a generation of pleas for its
               creation, was so successful that it has already led to calls for expansion.
Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series - University BeatJanuary 13, 2015 USF's Sport and Entertainment Management Program is bringing in an all-star team
               of experts to talk about the economic balls and strikes of sports in an upcoming lecture
               series.
USF Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series presented by FOX Sports Florida - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 13, 2015 The second annual USF Sport and Entertainment Lecture Series presented by FOX Sports
               Florida brings together top industry professionals to discuss global sport and entertainment
               industry topics.
Sports lecture series brings entertainment industry insiders - The OracleJanuary 12, 2015 Four leaders of the sports entertainment industry, two of whom are the former agent
               of Michael Jordan and the first African American woman to own a professional sports
               team, will take part in the second annual Sports and Entertainment Lecture Series
               today and tomorrow.
Top things to do in Tampa Bay for Jan. 13 - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 12, 2015 The lectures in this special series are free and open to the public, though tickets
               are required.
Centcom social media sites back online after hack - The Tampa TribuneJanuary 12, 2015 Tampa became the latest epicenter of cyber attacks as Twitter and YouTube accounts
               belonging to U.S. Central Command, headquartered at MacDill Air Force Base, were temporarily
               taken over by a group calling itself the Cyber Caliphate, which claims to be aligned
               with the Sunni insurgent group Islamic State.
USF experts say today's CENTCOM hack is a new type of attack - WFLAJanuary 12, 2015 While the hack on CENTCOM's social media accounts did not appear to compromise security,
               experts say this type of attack is new.
Sports super-agent, CEOs among leaders at free USF lecture series - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 8, 2015 Some of the most powerful executives in sports and entertainment will appear at the
               University of South Florida next week to discuss how they got to the top of their
               craft as part of the second annual USF Sport & Entertainment Lecture Series.
Health & Fitness Issue: Rollin' on the river - Creative LoafingJanuary 8, 2015 Last October, Dan Fleischbein looked out his Harbour Island office window and came
               up with an idea. An executive recruiter with Lucas Group, he was enrolled in USF's
               Master's in Entrepreneurship program (class of 2015) and was pondering how he could
               start his own company.
University Beat: National & Competitive Intelligence - WUSF RadioJanuary 6, 2015 USF Students interested in executive positions, whether in business or government,
               are encouraged to take part in a program in "National and Competitive Intelligence."
               The program, which is backed by a grant from the Office of the Director of National
               Intelligence, helps students learn such skills as information gathering, analysis
               and presentation.
Fund-finding Missions - BizEdJanuary 2015 Business schools take new paths to financial autonomy.
Back to top
2014
Bring it, 2015! Amy Scherzer's Diary looks back at the 2014 Tampa social scene - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 30, 2014 Philanthropists extraordinaire: Pam and Les Muma, here supporting the Broadway Ball
               at the Straz Center for the Performing Arts on Oct. 18, deserve a standing ovation
               for supporting myriad causes, including donating $25 million to the University of
               South Florida College of Business, which now bears their names.
To those who made Tampa Bay economy better in 2014 — thanks - Tampa Bay TimesDecember 26, 2014 Bravo to every person noted here for making the 2014 Tampa Bay economy stronger,
               smarter and more confident to try new things.
5 intriguing USF inventions patented in the past year - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 26, 2014 University of South Florida is the 12th highest academic patent producer in the country
               and among the top 300 U.S. patent owners worldwide.
Epic fail of 2014: Digital security - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 26, 2014 Whether it was stores with a national presence and millions of peoples' information,
               or one movie production company with intentions to release a controversial film, if
               there was information wanted, hackers found a way to get it.
Three USF innovators receive national honor - Tampa TribuneDecember 25, 2014 Three University of South Florida professors are among 170 across the country designated
               as 2014 Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors.
Marketing students help Tampa International Airport with website launchDecember 17, 2014 Marketing senior Ashlee Heirman put off taking the required marketing research course
               until her last semester, thinking it would be boring. But a semester-long project
               with Tampa International Airport changed her mind about marketing research -- even
               to the point where she is now interested in a career in the field.
National Academy of Inventors announces 2014 NAI Fellows - PR NewswireDecember 16, 2014 Those named today bring the total number of NAI Fellows to 414, representing more
               than 150 prestigious research universities and governmental and non-profit research
               institutions.
Sport, entertainment leaders to speak at USF lecture series in JanuaryDecember 16, 2014 Top executives in the sport and entertainment industries will participate in a series
               of free lectures Jan. 13 and 14, hosted by the University of South Florida Sport &
               Entertainment Management Program, FOX Sports Florida, and the Tampa Bay Lightning.
USF program takes businesses beyond U.S. borders - Tampa TribuneDecember 14, 2014 Chemical Containers Inc. has been in business for 30 years, saturating the Florida
               market and expanding into the Carolinas and Georgia, even procuring government contracts.
Business students come up with real-world solutions in case competitionDecember 12, 2014 Students at the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business teamed up
               with The Goodman Group to develop innovative ideas for meeting consumer demand in
               the next decade for The Palms of Largo's senior living & health care communities.
Entrepreneur Raxit Shah Shares His StoryDecember 12, 2014 Indian-born entrepreneur Raxit Shah brought in a catered dinner for a group of information
               systems students in November, providing them with authentic Indian cuisine before
               he talked with them about his life and career.
T. Rowe Price executive talks tech to ISDS studentsDecember 4, 2014 When Steve Sullivan joined T. Rowe Price in 1987, he worked in a small department
               -- about 40 people in a firm of about 400. Now, Sullivan heads T. Rowe Price's Global
               Technology Services Division of more than 500 associates working globally, and the
               jobs in his division are some of the most critical roles in the company.
USF teams receive grants to develop socially beneficial products - 83 DegreesDecember 2, 2014 Five teams at the University of South Florida in Tampa were recently selected as
               part of the National Science Foundation's Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program.
Mannequin Eye Contact and Other Ways Retailers Get You to Spend More - KiplingerDecember 2014 Your perception of value can be skewed by the "contrast effect," says marketing professor
               Dipayan Biswas, of the University of South Florida. A $20 shirt seems like a bargain
               when it's placed next to $40 shirts. Even the color of the ink used on sale signs
               matters: Markdowns in red seem more drastic and therefore more compelling.
Competition teaches students realities of supply chainsNovember 20, 2014 Students pursuing the new Supply Chain Management concentration for undergraduate
               students at the USF Muma College of Business might go in thinking that they can't
               gain firsthand experience in supply chains outside of a real-world internship.
2014's Best and Worst Cities for Hispanic Entrepreneurs - WalletHubNovember 14, 2014 I believe that government agencies should focus on developing programs to help all
               immigrants, and not just Hispanics. Immigrants are one of the largest sources for
               business creation in the U.S., often due to their difficulty in finding jobs in the
               labor force.
Stores' subliminal signals make you spend more - 10 NewsNovember 10, 2014 Dipayan Biswas, professor of marketing at the University of South Florida, has conducted
               consumer trend research around the globe, and says the holidays are prime time for
               retailers to lure you in.
Tailoring your sales staff for their survival and your success - Sports Business JournalNovember 10, 2014 While I have written about some of these thoughts previously, I thought I would compile
               my six best ideas and alterations for your consideration as you review your sales
               productivity and look to challenges in the coming year.
N.B.A. Pounds Pavement for Fitness Effort - New York TimesNovember 2, 2014 "This is highly unique, to be this visible, but actions speak louder than words,"
               said Bill Sutton, who worked in team marketing at the N.B.A. and now teaches sports
               business at the University of South Florida. "Everything you do is the portrayal of
               your brand."
2013 Standards Exemplified: Engagement - AACSB InternationalNovember 2014 Last month, philanthropists Pam and Les Muma donated 25 million USD to the AACSB-accredited
               University of South Florida's College of Business, now named the Muma College of Business
               in their honor.
Speakers discuss analytics, white-collar crime at business homecoming eventOctober 30, 2014 When Walt Pavlo began as a 29-year-old manager at MCI, he could hardly have foreseen
               that his burgeoning career in the telecom business would land him in prison.
Business students inspire middle-schoolers on Diploma-See DayOctober 29, 2014 Students studying at the USF Muma College of Business have already learned the importance
               of staying in school and succeeding in their pre-college studies. But high-risk students
               in middle school and high school may not have that same knowledge or hope.
Small Business Development Center's global involvement helps businesses internationallyOctober 29, 2014 The USF Small Business Development Center is well-known for the work it does locally,
               helping budding entrepreneurs and longstanding small businesses alike grow and succeed.
Name Change for USF Muma College of Business Signals A Push Forward - WUSF NewsOctober 29, 2014 The USF Muma College of Business was formally unveiled in front of a standing-room
               only crowd in the lobby of College's main building October 10th. The new name came
               as the result of a $25 million gift from Tampa businessman Les Muma and his wife,
               Pam.
SunTrust CEO dispenses financial, life wisdom to USF studentsOctober 28, 2014 Bill Rogers' philosophy for having an enjoyable and fulfilling career is a simple
               one: do whatever you do with purpose.
MIS student's Walmart internship let him experience corporate worldOctober 28, 2014 When management information systems graduate student Sushil Akhare was offered a
               summer internship at Walmart's headquarters, he knew the experience would be far beyond
               scanning barcodes for the retail giant.
College of Business - WUSFOctober 28, 2014 The Colleges of Business on both the USF Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses are undergoing
               monumental changes. Both have new names after multimillion dollar donations from local
               philanthropists, and USF St. Pete's College of Business will soon have a new building.
As wealthy loosen purse strings, is Tampa Bay philanthropy on the upswing? - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 27, 2014 After a post-recession lull in giving by the wealthy, Tampa Bay area universities
               are enjoying a charitable bonanza that some area philanthropists hope will accelerate
               in the coming years.
Back Home From the Cold: How Deep Roots Shaped a $25 Million Gift to USF - Inside PhilanthropyOctober 17, 2014 Leslie "Les" Muma and his wife Pam returned to Florida after Muma handed over the
               reins of his financial services technology firm, Fiserv. Both Muma and Pam attended
               the University of South Florida, and have been instrumental in several fundraising
               campaigns at the university, so their recent $25 million gift to the USF Tampa School
               of Business is no surprise.
Gift to USF Athletics, Muma College of Business Benefits StudentsOctober 17, 2014 Gift from Copperhead Charities was made possible by proceeds from 2014 Valspar Championship
               presented by BB&T, an official PGA TOUR Tournament
Editorial: Record USF gift validation of school's growing academic standing - Tampa
                  TribuneOctober 17, 2014 Among the many reasons to cheer the recent $25 million donation to USF's business
               school are the hands-on learning programs that will benefit students and faculty.
University of South Florida Receives $25 Million Gift - Philanthropy News DigestOctober 16, 2014 The University of South Florida has announced a $25 million gift from alumnus Les
               Muma and his wife, Pam, to establish a leadership program in its College of Business.
Four University of South Florida professors receive Excellence in Innovation Award - Tampa Bay NewswireOctober 15, 2014 Award recognizes exceptional achievement in technological innovation and entrepreneurial
               success.
UNC-Chapel Hill faculty speak out on athletics issues - The Herald-SunOctober 15, 2014 Mike Bowen, an instructor at the University of South Florida College of Business
               and the chair of a committee for the Coalition on Intercollegiate Athletics, a group
               seeks to represent faculty on intercollegiate sports issues, said his group and two
               faculty athletic representative groups were allowed to give input into the decision.
               He said faculty "had their say; they just weren't listened to." His group opposed
               the autonomy decision.
Four USF professors receive Excellence in Innovation Award - Business ObserverOctober 14, 2014 Four faculty members from the University of South Florida have received the USF Excellence
               in Innovation Award for exceptional achievement in innovation and research.
Four University of South Florida professors receive Excellence in Innovation Award - USF Research & InnovationOctober 14, 2014 Award recognizes exceptional achievement in technological innovation and entrepreneurial
               success
Four USF professors receive Excellence in Innovation Award - Business ObserverOctober 14, 2014 Four faculty members from the University of South Florida have received the USF Excellence
               in Innovation Award for exceptional achievement in innovation and research.
$25-Million Gift Boosts U. of South Florida Business School - The Chronicle of PhilanthropyOctober 13, 2014 Florida businessman Les Muma and his wife, Pam, have donated $25-million to the business
               school at the University of South Florida's main Tampa campus, which was renamed Friday
               in recognition of the gift, writes the Tampa Bay Times.
In social-media driven world, leaders must check 'thermostat' - Sports Business JournalOctober 13, 2014 The emotionally charged events that continue to take place in the sports industry
               have given us a great to deal to contemplate about the industry, its leadership, our
               society and, not least of all, ourselves.
Couple gives $25 million for USF business school - St. Augustine RecordOctober 13, 2014 The University of South Florida is getting a $25 million donation and a new name
               for its business school.
USF gets $25 million donation for business school - WTSPOctober 12, 2014 The Mumas have now donated $41 million to USF. The couple said they wanted to keep
               their donations anonymous but were persuaded that by going public, it could spur others
               with wealth to make donations.
USF gets $25 million donation for business school - WFLA.comOctober 12, 2014 The University of South Florida is getting a $25 million donation and a new name
               for its business school.
USF gets $25 million donation for business school - Miami HeraldOctober 12, 2014 The Tampa-based university announced that businessman Les Muma and his wife Pam are
               making the donation. In return, the business school will be renamed the USF Muma College
               of Business.
Longtime USF Supporters Pam and Les Muma Give $25 million to the USF College of Business - Tampa Bay NewswireOctober 11, 2014 The University of South Florida announced today that it has received a $25 million
               gift from Pam and Les Muma, the single largest individual gift in its history, to
               name the College of Business.
Muma College of Business - YouTubeOctober 10, 2014 The University of South Florida announces that it has received the biggest individual
               donation in its nearly 60-year history from Pam and Les Muma
Record $25 million gift spurs newly named USF Muma College of Business - Florida TrendOctober 10, 2014 It's a very good time to be a College of Business at the University of South Florida.
               USF president Judy Genshaft announced at a Friday morning community unveiling that
               Les and Pam Muma are donating $25 million to name the College of Business in Tampa.
$25M donation for USF College of Business - Bay News 9October 10, 2014 The College of Business at the University of South Florida has just gotten a very
               generous donation.
USF business school receives $25M gift - Business ObserverOctober 10, 2014 The University of South Florida announced a $25 million gift today from entrepreneurs
               and philanthropists Pam and Les Muma.
Mumas give USF largest donation in school history for College of Business - The OracleOctober 10, 2014 After receiving the largest individual donation in USF History, the College of Business
               will now be the USF Muma College of Business after alumni and philanthropists Les
               and Pam Muma donated $25 million to the university.
USF College of Business gets $25M gift, to be renamed after the Mumas - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 10, 2014 The University of South Florida received a $25 million gift from Les and Pam Muma,
               the single largest individual gift in the school's history.
Editorial: Gift to USF drives a new mission - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 10, 2014 Les and Pam Muma, left, with USF College of Business dean Moez Limayem, said they
               wanted to give back to an institution that was so pivotal to their success.
Record $25 million gift spurs newly named USF Muma College of Business - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 10, 2014 It's a very good time to be a College of Business at the University of South Florida.
               USF president Judy Genshaft announced at a Friday morning community unveiling that
               Les and Pam Muma — long-standing contributors, leaders in money raising for the university
               and both USF graduates — are donating $25 million to name the College of Business
               in Tampa.
Mumas Make Mark with $25 Million Gift to USF College of Business - WUSF NewsOctober 10, 2014 Les and Pam Muma talk exclusively with WUSF's Mark Schreiner about their record $25
               million dollar donation to the newly named "USF Muma College of Business."
USF gets $25 million donation for 'Muma College of Business' - The Tampa TribuneOctober 10, 2014 Les and Pam Muma started dating in 1964 as students at the University of South Florida. Fifty
               years and a rewarding life later, the Mumas are giving their alma mater the single
               largest donation it has received in its near-60-year history.
USF Announces a New Name for College of BusinessOctober 10, 2014 Longtime USF supporters Pam and Les Muma give $25 million, the single largest individual
               gift in the university's history, to the USF College of Business.
A New Era in Business: The Muma College of BusinessOctober 10, 2014 With the single largest gift in USF's history, the Muma College of Business is poised
               to join the top echelon of business schools across the nation.
BarCamp Tampa Bay Grows with the Local Tech and Business Community - EIN NewsOctober 9, 2014 Dispelling the myth that there is too little technical talent in Florida, BarCamp
               Tampa Bay will be hosting 800-900 of the region's developers, designers, freelancers
               and start-up founders at its 7th annual event on October 18th at the USF Muma College
               of Business.
Former white-collar criminal to share crooked past - The OracleOctober 9, 2014 In the corporate world, it is taxing to walk the line while fixated on the bottom
                     line. Before Walter Pavlo saw he had crossed the line of corruption, he was already
                     too astray to escape his $6 million crime.
Short mortgages available to some buyers - WTSPOctober 7, 2014 Renters like the Verma family and Kama Conrad are hoping to find a home one day at
               the right price. A new program that's being tested is called "15-year Wealth Builder
               Home Loan" might help them get there.
Former white-collar criminal uses experience as a lesson in business ethics - Tampa Bay Business JournalOctober 1, 2014 After receiving his master's degree in finance from Mercer University, Walter Pavlo
               began his career like many graduates, confident and optimistic about the road ahead
               of him. He never thought that one day his path would lead him to becoming the poster
               boy for white-collar crime.
USF grad student's 'Aquamelon' juice to soon hit shelves - Bay News 9September 27, 2014 A University of South Florida graduate student is behind a new product called Aquamelon
               that is slated to hit shelves in a few days.
Faculty group urges override of autonomy for power conferences - USA TodaySeptember 26, 2014 An alliance of faculty senates at NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision schools said Friday
               it has sent a statement to the presidents and chancellors of every Division I school
               urging them to support an override of the proposed governance changes that would give
               schools in the five power conferences greater autonomy in rules-making.
Longtime accounting teacher Celina Jozsi retiresSeptember 25, 2014 The love Jozsi developed for accounting, and the knowledge she passes on to her students,
               is based on her deep belief that accounting as the language of business can add tremendous
               value to an organization – but only if it is understood and communicated properly.
Florida Export Series to help grow export marketSeptember 25, 2014 With the largest port in the state of Florida, Tampa is the perfect place to break
               into the international market. The Florida SBDC at University of South Florida will
               present the Florida Export Series for local entrepreneurs who want to break into the
               export market, beginning October 7 at Port Tampa Bay.
College of Business researchers receive $300,000 grant to develop new courseSeptember 24, 2014 A new $300,000 grant from the National Science Foundation will prepare USF graduate
               students to take on today's cybersecurity challenges by giving them real-life business
               cases.
Business Schools Bring FinTech Into The MBA Classroom - BusinessBecauseSeptember 23, 2014 Business schools are rolling out classes in financial technology – as a surge in
               investment has allowed financial services companies to expand the fintech market.
USF Entrepreneurship Program, Graduate Pick Up Honors - WUSFSeptember 18, 2014 The University of South Florida's efforts to give students the skills they need to
               start their own businesses continue to gain attention, with both the College of Business
               and a nonprofit started by a graduate in his dorm room receiving separate national
               honors this week.
University of South Florida Entrepreneurship Program Ranked 13th Nationally - Tampa Bay PartnershipSeptember 18, 2014 Small businesses are the engine of the U.S. economy, and according to rankings released
               today by Entrepreneur magazine and the Princeton Review, the University of South Florida
               (USF) is one of the best at teaching its students to start new businesses.
Students learn Bulls' market - The OracleSeptember 17, 2014 USF undergrads invest university funds for stock trading class
In Tampa, USF graduate program ranks high for entrepreneurs - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 17, 2014 New rankings by Entrepreneur magazine and the Princeton Review rank the University of South Florida among the nation's best at teaching students
               to start new businesses.
USF entrepreneurship among best in nation - The OracleSeptember 17, 2014 If entrepreneurs are the heart of the U.S. economy, then USF's entrepreneurship program
               is getting the blood pumping, according to rankings released Tuesday.
Princeton Review ranks USF entrepreneurship center - Business ObserverSeptember 17, 2014 The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine ranked the University of South Florida's
               Center for Entrepreneurship as the 13th best graduate business school.
Student entrepreneur creates fresh watermelon business - The OracleSeptember 16, 2014 Desmond Williams, a business administration graduate student and paraprofessional
               at the USF Center for Entrepreneurship, founded the company that produces Aquamelon
               Water.
USF Entrepreneurship Program ranked 13th nationallySeptember 16, 2014 Small businesses are the engine of the U.S. economy, and according to rankings released
               today by Entrepreneur magazine and the Princeton Review, the University of South Florida
               is one of the best at teaching its students to start new businesses.
USF Entrepreneurship Center moves up on Princeton Review list - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 16, 2014 The center came in at No. 13 among 2,000 colleges and universities surveyed and published
               in the 2015 Top 50 Schools for Entrepreneurship Programs.
Business Scholarships - WUSFSeptember 16, 2014 The recent USF College of Business Scholarship Luncheon honored around 175 students
               who received almost $400,000 dollars in awards.
Homecoming 2014: Once Upon A HomecomingSeptember 15, 2014 Former white-collar criminal and current Forbes contributor Walter Pavlo will kick
               off a panel discussion on the danger of white-collar crimes on Oct.10, 2014 at 4:30
               P.M. at the University of South Florida College of Business.
USF Faculty Share Their KnowledgeSeptember 9, 2014 When members of the media have questions about how companies and organizations do
               business they often turn to USF College of Business faculty members to learn how the
               news of the day will affect the bottom line.
Technology marries a sports event's social media, activation ROI - Sports Business JournalSeptember 8, 2014 Last spring, my sports marketing graduate class at the University of South Florida
               was working on a project for its participation in Fox Sports University. Each group
               had to address how to create more fan interaction and connectivity with the sports
               product. Three of the four groups had technology solutions that involved an app or
               some type of radio-frequency identification device to solve the problem.
Levenson To Sell Hawks After Internal Investigation Finds Racially Charged E-Mail - Sports Business JournalSeptember 8, 2014 Hawks Managing Partner Bruce Levenson "will sell his controlling interest in the
               franchise because of an 'inappropriate and offensive' internal e-mail sent two years
               ago regarding, in part, the lack of white fans at Philips Arena," according to a front-page
               piece by Chris Vivlamore of the ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION.
Atlanta Hawks Owner Selling Team After Racist Email Surfaces - Boston.comSeptember 8, 2014 For the second time this year, the owner of a professional basketball team will sell
               his controlling interest of a franchise after his racially insensitive views were
               made public.
Atlanta Hawks owner stepping aside over racially charged email - LA TimesSeptember 7, 2014 Nearly a month after Donald Sterling was stripped of his ownership of the Los Angeles
               Clippers, ending a contentious legal battle sparked by his remarks about blacks, his
               comments have created fallout in another corner of the National Basketball Assn.
Views on Race Again Prompt an N.B.A. Sale - New York TimesSeptember 7, 2014 Bruce Levenson Will Sell Atlanta Hawks After Racially Charged Email Is Revealed
Atlanta Hawks owner stepping aside over racially charged email - LA Remix.tvSeptember 7, 2014 Nearly a month after Donald Sterling was stripped of his ownership of the Los Angeles
               Clippers, ending a contentious legal battle sparked by his remarks about blacks, his
               comments have created fallout in another corner of the National Basketball Assn.
Impressed by his grit, readers offer help to USF student - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 3, 2014 Dakota Rockwell never asked for help. He was reluctant to share all his hardships. But
               after he spoke at a University of South Florida banquet for new business students
               and the Times ran a story about him Monday, hundreds of strangers reached out, applauding
               his perseverance, wanting to ease his difficult journey.
Losing his mother turned USF student all business - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 31, 2014 He got the letter in July, at his mom's house in Seminole. She never would have believed
               it. Not after everything that had happened. Dakota Rockwell, 20, had applied to the
               University of South Florida as a long shot, hoping — but never dreaming — he would
               be accepted. Then the admissions office emailed. He could start in August, in the
               business school.
Doctor of Business Administration - WUSFAugust 26, 2014 An MBA is a Masters of Business Administration degree — but have you heard about
               a DBA? USF is unveiling a new Doctor of Business Administration program that targets
               CEO's and other upper-level executives looking to transform their business practices.
Sam's Club stocking holiday items in August - ABC Action NewsAugust 21, 2014 "If you can create the ambiance that it's like Christmas, the Christmas season, the
               assumption is that might make people spend more," said Dipayan Biswas, associate marketing
               professor at the University of South Florida.
Strong Buying Opportunity: General Electric's Synchrony Financial Quiet Period Expiration - Seeking AlphaAugust 15, 2014 The 40 day quiet period for SYF will conclude September 8, allowing SYF's IPO underwriters
               to publish (likely positive) analyses of the GE consumer financial services spin-off
               on September 9.
An American bachelor's degree - Afternoon Despatch & CourierAugust 13, 2014 The National Management School has partnered with Broward College and University
               of South Florida to offer an American Associate degree and an American Bachelor's
               degree to students from India.
Photos - Jaspinder Narula, Kavitta Verma, Amy Billimoria at an educational programme
                  launch - ApunKaChoiceAugust 7, 2014 The National Management School has partnered with Broward College and University
               of South Florida to offer an American Associate degree and an American Bachelor's
               degree to students from India.
Password Security - News Radio 610 WIODAugust 7, 2014
Tampa Bay residents possible victims of Russian internet hack - WFLAAugust 6, 2014 With more than a billion people affected by the Russian cyber ring hacking into people's
               internet accounts, a USF professor believes some Bay area internet users accounts
               may have been hacked into.
Password Security - WFLAAugust 6, 2014 According to USF cybersecurity expert Manish Agrawal, you can change your password
               and make it as difficult as you want, but you always run the risk of being exposed.
Diebold claims skimmer-proof ATM device - WTSPJuly 30, 2014 As the number of cases that involve skimming devices installed on ATM increases across
               the Bay area, an Ohio-based company unveiled what it calls the "world's most secure
               anti-skimming card reader."
Doctor of Business Administration Degree Now Offered at USF - Bradenton TimesJuly 26, 2014 Set to begin at the start of next year, this program is designed for upper-level
               industry executives who wish to further their education in the managerial field. Students
               will participate in both traditional and advanced classroom studies, as well as online
               courses, real-world industry studies and in-depth research within their own companies.
University of South Florida students to study software at Infosys - EDU TechJuly 25, 2014 Students from the University of South Florida (USF) will be visiting India to study
               a module on software engineering at the education and research wing of Infosys.
Software module - TMCNetJuly 23, 2014 The nine undergraduates and four graduate students of management information systems
               (MIS) are going to spend three weeks at Infosys in Mysore in July-August as part of
               a tie-up entering the fifth year.
How thieves clone your credit cards - WFLAJuly 21, 2014 The Target security breach last year proved just how widespread and simple it can
               be to clone credit card information.
Software module - The Times of IndiaJuly 21, 2014 A group of students from the University of South Florida (USF) are coming to India
               to study a module on software engineering at the education and research wing of a
               company.
Flight 17 and Social Media - Bay News 9July 19, 2014 There was confirmation today that updates on Malaysia flight 17, and public reaction
               to the downed plane, are playing out on the web, but a University of South Florida
               professor says all those social media posts may not be a good thing.
Malaysia Airlines Flight 17: Does Social Media Help or Hurt Disaster Response?July 18, 2014 New research from a University of South Florida professor finds false information
               spread on social media leads to spread of rumors, confusion and added delays in first
               responders providing the public with accurate details in a crisis
Hernando business digest for July 18 - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 17, 2014 The Small Business Development Center at the University of South Florida, in partnership
               with the Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce, will offer a business seminar,
               "Basic Business Taxes," 2 to 5 p.m. Wednesday at the chamber office, 15588 Aviation
               Loop Drive, south of Brooksville.
10 News spurs more secure county websites - WTSPJuly 16, 2014 We checked dozens of local government websites local residents use to pay water bills,
               apply for permits, and check tax records.
USF Launches New Doctor of Business Administration Program - Tampa Bay NewswireJuly 15, 2014 CEOs and other upper-level executives will soon be able to earn doctoral degrees
               in business without interrupting their careers, thanks to a new Doctor of Business
               Administration degree program launching at the University of South Florida.
Business Buzz - Herald-TribuneJuly 15, 2014 USF's College of Business is launching the DBA, designed exclusively for executives
               and business leaders with at least a dozen years of upper-level industry experience.
Mike Trout's All-Star coronation - ESPNJuly 15, 2014 "You never hear anything about this guy that's not apple pie," said Bill Sutton.
               "He's Jack Armstrong, and that's extremely rare. He's very quiet. He's very humble.
               He signs a big extension, and he's still about the team, all about winning. He's very
               Jeter-like. 'I' never comes up. It's always 'we' and 'us.'"
USF Launches New Doctor of Business Administration ProgramJuly 14, 2014 Applications are now being accepted for program targeting working professionals in
               experienced executive and business leadership roles.
New USF degree adds DBA to the C-level alphabet soup - Tampa Bay Business JournalJuly 14, 2014 Top level business executives now have an opportunity to earn doctoral degrees in
               business without interrupting their careers.
Businesses take a broader role in shaping higher education - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 11, 2014 Sri Sridharan is on a daunting mission: to create the state's first cybersecurity
               center at the University of South Florida, developing a curriculum by this fall for
               an inaugural class of master's degree candidates.
What are the Best 4th of July Sales? - WFLA-TVJuly 7, 2014 USF marketing professor Rob Hooker discusses the top items to shop for among many
               4th of July sales.
USF College of Business teaches high-schoolers data analytics in half-day bootcampJuly 5, 2014 Local high school students recently learned that data is more than numbers on a page
               -- they saw first-hand that data can be the deciding factor in making crucial business
               decisions.
Hackers Stealing Information Without Anyone Knowing - WFLA-TVJuly 1, 2014 A new report finds 97% of small or medium size businesses have been hacked and most
               don't realize it's happened. USF cybersecurity expert Sri Sridharan explains how hackers
               are so effective.
Women EntrepreneursJune 30, 2014 When it comes to women in business -- and more specifically, women in entrepreneurship
               -- the stereotypes of business suits, Wall Street banker capitalists, or the desire
               for a fat bottom line aren't always accurate.
Chew On This - New York TimesJune 29, 2014 In a series of tests, Dipayan Biswas, a marketing professor at the University of
               South Florida, asked students to eat brownie bits as they watched TV. They generally
               ate more if the brownies were gooey and soft, rather than hard and dry.
Incubating Innovation - USF MagazineJune 25, 2014 Advised by USF research leaders, USF students run a business incubator of their own
First Class - USF MagazineJune 25, 2014 Most people know that an MBA gives people from a variety of backgrounds a chance
               to become better versed in managerial and business operations.
USF MBA in Sport & Entertainment Management's Inaugural Class Accepts Job Offers Locally
                  and Across Nation - Tampa Bay PartnershipJune 25, 2014 Just weeks after graduation, 16 of the 19 graduates from the inaugural class from
               the University of South Florida MBA in Sport & Entertainment Management have accepted
               offers for professional and executive-level industry jobs in the Tampa Bay and across
               the nation.
Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship Recipients to Study Abroad in ChinaJune 16, 2014 Two College of Business students have been awarded the chance to study abroad as
               Gilman Scholars this summer. Michelle Tjahjono and Austin-James Cox will study Chinese
               language and culture with the USF Chinese Learning in the Culture: Tier 1 program.
Business leaders discuss international trade at USFJune 12, 2014 "Exports are the key to economic prosperity. What you're doing here is so important
               to our state," said Moez Limayem, dean of the USF College of Business, as he welcomed
               the attendees. "Here at USF, we're so proud to make global impact and business engagement
               our strategic priorities."
Marketing instructor wins national AMA awardMay 21, 2014 At the annual AMA conference held in New Orleans in April, Solomon was presented
               with the Hugh. G. Wales Outstanding Advisor of the Year Award, given to only two advisors
               nationwide.
Retailers offering big discounts for Memorial Day weekend - ABC Action NewsMay 20, 2014 Stores typically try to move seasonal items out of their inventory and into the hands
               of customers, said University of South Florida assistant professor of marketing Rob
               Hooker said.
Political ads hit the web for Fla. governor's race - WFLAMay 16, 2014 Web ads can be cheaper, offer a way to link to a place to donate and give campaigns
               the opportunity to see who is watching and clicking on them, said Robert Hooker, assistant
               professor of marketing at the University of South Florida.
Morgan Family Makes $8 Million Gift to benefit USF Athletics, Colleges of Business
                     and Marine ScienceMay 15, 2014 George '76 and Jane Morgan have had a life-long love affair with the University of
               South Florida. Now, thanks to a deferred gift, they've ensured that their passion
               for George's alma mater will be felt long after they are gone.
New Study: Paid-For Analyst Reports Can Benefit Investors - AccountingWEBMay 12, 2014 Recently published research by three accounting professors found that reports from
               paid-for stock analysts offer nearly the same relevant information to investors as
               reports from sell-side firms.
Talk Back Florida: The Fight Against Ovarian Cancer - News Talk FloridaMay 12, 2014 Cyber security and keeping your data and smartphone information safe was also part
               of the conversation. Sri Sridharan, Managing Director of the new cyber security department/degree
               program at USF gave us some practical safety tips.
Student Healthcare Innovators Do Battle 'Shark Tank' Style - WUSFMay 7, 2014 Twelve teams of students from eight Florida universities recently faced off at the
               Second Annual State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition to determine whose
               medical technology reigned supreme -- and the winners walked away with $10,000.
Grants allow ISDS Department, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy to expand undergraduate
                     programsMay 7, 2014 Two new grants from the State of Florida will help information systems and accounting
               students at USF take smaller classes, learn more, and, ideally, graduate in less time.
'Breakfast with a CIO' event brings banking executive to tech communityMay 5, 2014 JPMorgan Chase moves more money every day than the GDP of the United Kingdom, about
               $5 trillion daily -- but it's not the dollar bills we typically carry in our wallets.
Family of Grads, Retiring Announcer among USF Commencement Highlights - WUSF NewsMay 2, 2014 In addition to the "to selfie or not to selfie" debate, there are a number of other
               stories making news at this weekend's University of South Florida Spring Commencement
               - including a family of graduates, a former migrant worker turned educator, and a
               USF professor whose voice is recognizable to thousand of alumni.
Healthcare Innovation Competition - WUSFMay 2014 It's "Shark Tank" – USF style – as students from eight Florida colleges recently
               faced off at the University of South Florida to see who created the most innovative
               healthcare technology.
FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum Highlights Growing Indo-U.S. Business Relationships - Tampa Bay PartnershipApril 30, 2014 The stars of Indian film, politics, and business, along with leaders in those arenas
               in the U.S., all came together for the FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum in Tampa last
               week.
Clippers face crisis management as sponsors flee owner Sterling - Chicago TribuneApril 29, 2014 The National Basketball Association must focus on its relationships with sponsors
               as it investigates comments attributed to Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling,
               according to a crisis manager.
Clippers See Sponsors Flee as NBA Investigates Owner Remarks - Bloomberg BusinessweekApril 29, 2014 The Los Angeles Clippers lost four sponsors and a half-dozen more suspended deals
               as the National Basketball Association called a news conference to address racist
               comments attributed to team owner Donald Sterling.
On The Agenda - The LedgerApril 26, 2014 There will be an "Ask-the-Experts" session, a counselor from the Small Business Development
               Center at the University of South Florida and a social media discussion.
FICCI-IIFA speaker Sajan Pillai: 'Technology is the new oil' - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 25, 2014 Presenters at the FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum Friday morning expressed enthusiasm
               about the climate for business and the possibilities of technology, despite the economic
               troubles of recent years.
FICCI-IIFA forum panel: Enticing tourists from overseas - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 25, 2014 Luring international visitors is one of the most significant challenges tourism marketers
               face, as it requires convincing people to travel great distances to experience a destination.
FDA proposes broad rules for e-cigarettes - Tampa Bay TimesApril 24, 2014 The Food and Drug Administration on Thursday proposed sweeping new regulations for
               electronic cigarettes, including a ban on sales to anyone under 18, in the first step
               toward oversight of a fast-growing industry untouched for years by federal rules.
IIFA business forum promote trade ties between U.S., India - Tampa Bay TimesApril 24, 2014 More than 250 people gathered for the Global Business Forum at the Tampa Convention
               Center to discuss ways to strengthen the countries' trade and business relationship.
Bollywood means business, forum told - Tampa Bay TimesApril 24, 2014 The International Indian Film Academy got down to business - the economic kind -
               on Thursday during a forum to promote ties between the United States and India.
New partnership gives students global business experienceMay 1, 2014 Florida's economy has always been dependent on the beaches and sunny skies that bring
               tourists from all over the world. But with seasonal ups and downs and economic uncertainty
               taking its toll on disposable incomes, Florida businesses have diversified to meet
               other global demands.
FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum 2014April 28, 2014 The stars of Indian film, politics, and business, along with leaders in those arenas
               in the U.S., all came together for the FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum in Tampa last
               week.
News roundup for Food Texture StudyApril 22, 2014 Marketing professor Dipayan Biswas has a forthcoming article in the Journal of Consumer Research.
How Food Texture Influences Your Calorie Intake - Women's HealthApril 21, 2014 According to a new study, people perceive foods that are hard or rough to have fewer
               calories—meaning they might consume more of those foods regardless of their actual
               nutritional value.
The Snacking Trick You Fall For - Men's HealthApril 21, 2014 Soft foods, soft stomach? Unless you're focused on counting calories, you tend to
               mindlessly munch more food if you're eating something with a smooth or soft texture,
               shows new research from the University of South Florida.
USF Student Innovation - Bay News 9April 21, 2014 Desmond Williams, co-founder of the USF Student Innovation Incubator speaks about
               the program.
UCF Students Take First Place in USF Innovation Pitch Competition - Florida BlueApril 21, 2014 A device that will help provide a more sanitary restroom experience for females took
               first place April 7 in the second annual Innovation Pitch competition, a partnership
               between Florida Blue and the University of South Florida Center for Entrepreneurship.
Advertising students give their all to national competitionApril 18, 2014 For more than two decades, USF has been sending students to the National Student
               Advertising Competition, which asks students to spend a year coming up with a multimillion
               dollar campaign for a national sponsor client.
Chewing the fat away? How dieters perceive crunchier foods as low-calorie - Daily MailApril 18, 2014 Dieters are more likely to pick crunchy foods over soft snacks because they believe
               they are better for the waistline, according to a new study.
5 studies you may have missed - CNN HealthApril 18, 2014 Here's a roundup of five medical studies published this week that might give you
               new insights into your health, mind and body.
People perceive food that is either hard or has a rough texture to have fewer calories,
                     study finds - IBN LiveApril 17, 2014 "We studied the link between how a food feels in your mouth and the amount we eat,
               the types of food we choose, and how many calories we think we are consuming," researchers
               said.
Judge A Food By Its Texture And Risk Being Wrong - Fast CompanyApril 16, 2014 Texture counts for a lot when we eat. New research, in the Journal of Consumer Research,
               says people assume that "hard" foods, such as raw vegetables, have fewer calories
               than "soft" foods, such as ice-cream.
Crunchy or Smooth? Food's Texture May Sway Perception of Calories - U.S. News & World ReportApril 16, 2014 Creamy butter or ice cream versus a crunchy granola bar: A new study
               suggests that the texture of foods influences people's dieting choices.
Food texture affects our calorie intake - The Times of IndiaApril 16, 2014 According to the study, people perceive food that are either hard or have a rough
               texture to have fewer calories.
Food's Texture May Sway Perception of Calories - WebMDApril 16, 2014 When study participants were thinking about calories, they ate more of the crunchier
               items, less of the soft
How Food Texture Influences Our Perception Of Calories - Huffington PostApril 16, 2014 Everyone knows that crunchy carrot sticks are a less-caloric choice than, say, mashed
               potatoes loaded with cream and butter. And a new study shows just how the texture
               of these foods might also help us to discern the calorie estimations.
How Food Texture Affects Your Calorie Intake - ShapeApril 16, 2014 Next time you are snacking on a handful of nuts, be sure to portion them out: According
               to new research published in the Journal of Consumer Research, people perceive foods
               that are either hard or have a rough texture to have fewer calories.
Here's How a Food's Texture May Make You Eat More (or Less!) - GlamourApril 16, 2014 There are the crunchy foods you love and the creamy foods you love...and now new
               research is suggesting that those very textures may influence your perception as to
               how many calories are in each.
Ejemplo de superación y constancia sin límites - Centro TampaApril 10, 2014 Giampiero Fuentes recuerda que su primera 'incursión' en los negocios ocurrió cuando
               tenía 6 o 7 años de edad. No era algo muy complicado: venderle a los amigos de barrio
               las historietas y revistas que coleccionaba.
Wall Street recruiter and USF alumna speaks with students about her career pathApril 9, 2014 Now the executive director for finance analyst and associate programs for JPMorgan
               Chase in New York City, the two-time USF College of Business alumna recently told
               a group of USF finance students that she owes her career to three things: hard work,
               luck, and sponsors who believed in her potential.
State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition offers students $10,000 prizeApril 4, 2014 What do a grocery store, Google Glass apps, and a motorized surgical device have
               in common? They're all inventions by Florida university students designed to meet
               a need in the healthcare industry.
5 speakers you have to see at the IIFA Global Business Forum - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 2, 2014 The forum, an initiative of the International Indian Film Academy and the Federation
               of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, is scheduled at the Tampa Convention
               Center April 24-25. It will coincide with the 2014 IIFA Weekend & Awards, also known
               as the "Bollywood Oscars."
Global Business Forum April 24-25 - Building Bridges to Indian Business - KhaasBaatApril 2014 Many people know that Tampa Bay's port is easily linked to rapidly expanding markets
               in Central and South America, but did you know that, in 2012, India was the Tampa
               Port Authority's largest export destination?
Business leaders booked, registration open for FICCI-IIFA business forum - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 24, 2014 Expect a who's who of Indian business leaders, including CEOs, technologists and
               ambassadors, to speak at the FICCI-IIFA Global Business Forum, the business forum
               and expo scheduled at the Tampa Convention Center April 24-25, in conjunction with
               the 2014 International Indian Film Academy awards.
After Bollywood glitz, Tampa Bay aims to deepen ties with India - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 19, 2014 We're just a month or so away from the Bollywood Oscars, a multiday extravaganza
               here that culminates in a high-glitz, hyper-fun awards show set for Raymond James
               Stadium before an expected live audience of 35,000 and global viewers estimated at
               an astonishing 800 million.
Indian influence boosts local economy - Tampa TribuneMarch 16, 2014 Locally, Florida had the six largest groups of Indians among all states; in Hillsborough
               and four adjoining counties, the 2010 census reports 27,939 people of Indian descent.
Starting Your Business class offered - News SunMarch 16, 2014 "Starting Your Business" is a free seminar presented by the Small Business Development
               Center at University of South Florida.
People And Changes - The LedgerMarch 16, 2014 The Florida Small Business Development Center of the University of South Florida
               has added two certified business consultants to its Polk County staff.
Achievers - Tampa TribuneMarch 16, 2014 Military Times announced the University of South Florida College of Business, Tampa,
               is No. 9 in its second annual "Best for Vets: Business Schools 2014" rankings, the
               only Florida school in the top 10.
Study Says Many CEOs are Too Friendly with Audit Committees, Urges SEC Action - CPA Practice AdvisorMarch 12, 2014 A decade after scandals at Enron, Worldcom, and other companies dramatized the need
               for improved corporate financial monitoring, this critical regulatory challenge remains
               in essential ways unmet, new research suggests.
Center for Cybersecurity - WUSFMarch 12, 2014 A group of faculty and executives at USF would like to see the Tampa Bay area become
               that kind of pioneering region when it comes to the rapidly growing field of cybersecurity
               — and they're hoping the university will lead the way.
USF College of Business ranked ninth for veteransMarch 10, 2014 For military veterans seeking a business education, the University of South Florida
               College of Business is now among the top 10 programs for veterans in the nation.
Generalizations are offensive to marketing programs, students - SportsBusiness JournalMarch 10, 2014 I have always had the philosophy that there is something that can be learned from
               almost anyone or any experience. Thus, I have learned a variety of things from Mark
               Cuban over the years, some positive and some negative.
Tampa ranks third among best cities for jobs - ABC Action NewsMarch 5, 2014 An online consumer advocacy site has ranked the best 60 cities in America to find
               jobs, and Tampa placed third behind Washington, D.C. and Fort Worth, Texas.
Learning on the Job - USF MagazineMarch 5, 2014 Internships enrich the student experience, preparing students for the workplace.
27th Annual Government Small Business Conference - FOX 13 NewsFebruary 28, 2014 Selling to the Government Made Easy "Rebuilding American Businesses"
USF cybersecurity program gets a lot of love from nerds and suits - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 24, 2014 Amid growing national concerns about cybersecurity, the University of South Florida
               is positioning itself to take the lead on working with businesses to ward off cyber
               threats.
CEO talks challenges of citrus industry with studentsFebruary 12, 2014 The citrus industry is different from the 1950s when every member of the family had
               a glass of orange juice with breakfast.
USF students pushing for new Cybersecurity Center - WTSPFebruary 12, 2014 College students from USF weren't coming home from a bar at 3:30 in the morning Wednesday,
               they were heading to Tallahassee to make a difference.
Your smart phone and other gadgets, a new frontier for hackers - WFLAFebruary 11, 2014 Sri Sridharan, the Director of the Center for Cyber security at the University of
               South Florida says, "If you are using free wi fi at a coffee shop, you're an open
               book because that's not a secure connection."
Experts: CVS tobacco sales may be "smartest move ever" - WTSPFebruary 5, 2014 Bold and risky -- that's how marketing experts describe CVS' recent decision to stop
               selling tobacco products.
Another Major Company Hacked - WTSPFebruary 1, 2014 In the aftermath of Yahoo's security breach, USF cybersecurity expert Sri Sridharan
               analyzes why a growing number of major corporations are falling victim to hackers.
USF sees potential in rise of cybersecurity for education and economy - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 31, 2014 Tampa Bay is learning how to fight back against electronic security breaches such
               as recent attacks against Yahoo Mail accounts and at leading retailers.
Target credit card breach breeds worry - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 31, 2014 In the end, the cost of security breaches will be passed on to consumers in the form
               of increased prices and credit cards fees, said Sajeev Varki, an associate marketing
               professor at the University of South Florida. Everyone will pay a few cents more as
               the cost of doing business on plastic.
"Shark Tank" gives would-be entrepreneurs a practice pitchJanuary 31, 2014 Like the popular show "Shark Tank," USF's first event of the same name on Jan. 21
               gave students the chance to get their business ideas in front of professionals who
               invest money in promising ventures.
Executive MBA speaker series brings business leaders to the classroomJanuary 31, 2014 The Executive MBA Distinguished Speaker Series brings in well-known business leaders
               to speak exclusively with the program's students about what the leaders learned in
               their career journeys and how it applies to the students' own burgeoning executive
               careers.
What students have to say about the USF Bulls Business Community - YouTubeJanuary 31, 2014 Freshman students have a terrific living-learning opportunity with
               the Bulls Business Community, home to 105 business majors and located in USF's newest
               residence hall.
Infosys executive chairman to present at IIFA business forum - Tampa Bay Business JournalJanuary 28, 2014 Narayana Murthy, co-founder and executive chairman of Indian IT giant Infosys, is
               scheduled to appear at a business forum during the International Indian Film Academy
               Weekend & Awards.
Architects' billing boost may indicate more big construction projects - Bradenton HeraldJanuary 28, 2014 Area architecture offices are designing more buildings and hiring more people as
               they buck a national trend in the commercial design and construction industry.
University of South Florida MBA Sport Management - YouTubeJanuary 21, 2014 The University of South Florida teamed up with the Tampa Bay Lightning and FOX Sports
               Florida for a unique partnership with the university's MBA program.
'Starting Your Business' seminar set - newssun.comJanuary 21, 2014 From how to determine feasibility and legal structure to the type of license you
               will need, this class covers all the essentials that will help you get started.
Sport Lecture Series Wrap-UpJanuary 17, 2014 An ESPN analyst, global CEO, sports search firm partner, and author/professor came
               to USF this week share their wisdom and insights on the sports industry with students
               and community members.
ESPN analyst shares career path with USF audienceJanuary 17, 2014 ESPN football analyst Andrew Brandt says his career has been a series of doors closing
               and opening.
NFL insider talks business to students - The OracleJanuary 16, 2014 For a businessman in the NFL, climbing the hierarchy isn't as simple and clean-cut
               as other office jobs.
Women's Tennis CEO shares challenges of global brandJanuary 16, 2014 "(The WTA) can't be the best in sports," Allaster said. "We can't beat the NFL. What
               can we own, how can we be different?"
Sports search firm CEO links relationships, successJanuary 15, 2014 Eastman & Beaudine CEO Bob Beaudine recently told a crowd who came to hear him speak
               on the business of sports to send a text message to the most important person in their
               life.
USF Opens Incubator to Hatch Students' Businesses - WUSFJanuary 14, 2014 Members of the incubator and other USF-backed companies were on display
               as part of USF CONNECT's S BEAT (Building Entrepreneurship Around Tampa) event.
USF Lectures Break Down the Business of Sports - WUSFJanuary 13, 2014 Doctor Bill Sutton, Director of the USF Sport and Entertainment Management Program,
               talks to WUSF's Mark Schreiner about the USF Sports Lecture Series.
Sports lecture series to offer industry, professional insight this week - The OracleJanuary 13, 2014 For students preparing to enter the job market in the next few years, several top
               professionals will speak on campus this week, sharing their advice from working in
               the sports and business industries through a sports lecture series.
Tampa Bay Ambassador: Irene Hurst, USF College of Business - Tampa Bay PartnershipJanuary 9, 2014 Irene Hurst first set foot in the United States in 1984 when she landed in Tampa
               Bay to attend the University of South Florida (USF).
USF Sports Lecture Series Features ESPN Analyst, CEOs, Influential AuthorsJanuary 8, 2014 Free lecture series brings top speakers to region
Cybersecurity Trends - Bay News 9January 8, 2014 Sri Sridharan, director of the USF-based Florida Center for Cybersecurity, discusses
               current and future trends in cybersecurity.
Back to top
2013
Online shipping will never be 100% on time - CNN MoneyDecember 27, 2013 Building up infrastructure to meet a level of service that's demanded only a few
               days each year doesn't make sense.
What we can learn from holiday shipping delays - WFLADecember 26, 2013 UPS workers across the country, including here in the Bay area, continued to work
               Thursday to deliver packages that were promised to people by Christmas but didn't
               make it.
University of South Florida Grows its Online Program Presence - Broadway WorldDecember 23, 2013 The University of South Florida is proud to announce additions to its partnership
               with Colloquy to support two new online programs – an online MBA with a Concentration
               in Sport Business and an online Graduate Certificate in Business Foundations.
Security expert: Target shoppers should cancel cards - WTSPDecember 20, 2013 It didn't take long Thursday to find some of the estimated 40 million potential victims
               of the Target credit card security breach.
Empiecen a Exportar para Obtener Mayores Ganancias - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 19, 2013 Our first column, "Start exporting to generate higher profits," is by Eileen Rodriguez,
               regional director of the Florida Small Business Development Center at the University
               of South Florida.
New online-only degrees offer students flexibilityDecember 18, 2013 "These new programs make a USF business degree accessible to students who may not
               have the flexibility to complete an on-campus degree program," said Kaushal Chari,
               associate dean of the College of Business.
Students take real-world lessons from class competitionDecember 17, 2013 When Donna Davis joined USF as an associate professor this fall, she decided to bring
               a favorite teaching tool with her: a global competition that would help her students
               develop real-life business skills in the classroom.
Dr. Bill Sutton Talks about USF's online MBA with a Concentration in Sport Business
                     program - YouTubeDecember 11, 2013 Dr. Bill Sutton discusses the University of South Florida's online MBA with a Concentration
               in Sport Business program.
Study: CEOs Have Too Many Friends on the Audit Committee - AccountingTodayDecember 10, 2013 These friendships, according to the study, "have a significant negative impact on
               corporate financial integrity, fostering earnings manipulation, low levels of audit
               effort, concealment of financial distress, and cover-ups of internal-control weaknesses."
USF entrepreneurship alumni give backDecember 10, 2013 When Jennifer Sineway and her colleagues in USF's entrepreneurship master's degree
               program graduated from USF in 2011, they decided they didn't want their USF and community
               involvement to end there.
Happy Holidays from the College of BusinessDecember 6, 2013 The University of South Florida College of Business extends its warmest holiday greetings
               to our students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, corporate partners, and friends.
Amazon's Drone Plan - Fox 13December 2, 2013 Amazon's drone flew in to the news just in time for Cyber Monday.
Business schools need to throw away the rule book - Tampa TribuneDecember 1, 2013 Today's students are not like previous generations. They don't remember life before
               social media and an always-on world.
Entrepreneur Speaks to New Venture ClassNovember 26, 2013 Recently, students studying entrepreneurship had a chance to hear from serial inventor
               Ron Klein, the inventor behind the magnetic strip on billions of credit cards worldwide,
               as part of the final meeting of Sean Lux's new venture formation class.
New business incubator encourages student entrepreneurshipNovember 26, 2013 A new Student Innovation Incubator, a partnership between the USF Center for Entrepreneurship
               and USF Connect, will help aspiring entrepreneurs take their business ideas from concept
               to reality.
Citi seminar prepares students for successNovember 25, 2013 Anti-money laundering expertise might seem like a specialized skill, but for many
               students in the National & Competitive Intelligence Program, the knowledge they gained
               from a summer seminar with Citi has helped make them marketable in whatever career
               fields they choose.
USF accounting students participate in Great American Teach-InNovember 25, 2013 Do get an internship. Don't post party pictures on Facebook. Don't skip class. Do
               figure out what motivates you.
Board of Governors OKs USF cybersecurity center - Tampa TribuneNovember 21, 2013 The state university system's Board of Governors has signed off on a proposal to
               create an ambitious Florida Center for Cybersecurity on the University of South Florida
               campus.
Bulls Business Community Connects to Tampa International AirportNovember 21, 2013 Students from the Bulls Business Community met with senior Tampa International Airport
               management during an exclusive tour of the airport's facilities on Friday.
USF plans Center for Cybersecurity - Tampa Bay Business JournalNovember 20, 2013 The University of South Florida is proposing the creation a Florida Center for Cybersecurity,
               a national center of research on the increasingly important topic.
Scripps Networks Interactive Names Senior Vice President of Investor Relations - MarketWatchNovember 19, 2013 A certified public accountant, Gallentine holds a Master of Business Administration
               degree from Georgia State University, and a Bachelor of Science in accounting from
               the University of South Florida.
Collier Student Success CenterNovember 19, 2013 The new Collier Student Success Center at the USF Muma College of Business focuses
               on the value students can add to their degrees outside of the classroom as well as
               within it.
Incubator to help USF students launch businesses - Tampa TribuneNovember 19, 2013 Some of the shining stars of the University of South Florida's entrepreneurship push
               – including the purple-clad Megabyte and Sublimation, superheroes who are educating
               youngsters while saving the world from the evil Dr. Entropy – joined school officials
               Tuesday in launching the Student Innovation Incubator on the Tampa campus.
USF poised to create Florida cybersecurity center - WFLANovember 19, 2013 Cyber attacks reported by federal agencies have grown nearly 800 percent in the past
               six years.
USF poised to create Florida cybersecurity center - Tampa TribuneNovember 19, 2013 USF officials will appear before the state university system Board of Governors today
               to pitch the creation of a Florida Center for Cybersecurity at the Tampa campus, an
               organization called for by Gov. Rick Scott and the Legislature to put the state at
               the forefront of the growing field.
How to Increase Revenue, Add Stability to Your Practice - MPRNovember 18, 2013 To make a business successful, entrepreneurs should spend about 60% of their time
               servicing customers.
Part-time MBA tops state in Bloomberg rankings - The OracleNovember 18, 2013 USF's part-time MBA program was ranked first of Florida state universities, No. 16
               of public universities and No. 36 of public and private universities by Bloomberg
               Businessweek last Thursday.
Hall of Fame nod to Emeritus Professor - PhD ProjectNovember 18, 2013 Mimi is a tireless mentor advising her own and her 'adopted' PhD Project doctoral
               students. Through her efforts and presence—in addition to passion and big heart—she
               has paved the way for women (and men) of color in the Academy.
'Starting Your Business' seminar set - newssun.comNovember 17, 2013 You've got the idea. Now you need to know how get on your way. "Starting Your Business"
               is a class that teaches just that.
USF could become a hub for cybersecurity training - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 16, 2013 The modern shootout between good and evil is happening on a new battlefield.
Young CEOs share stories of business challenge, success, personal growth - Tallahassee.comNovember 14, 2013 It was a day Carley Ochs still recalls with a mix of first disappointment, then elation. Ochs,
               founder and CEO of the jewelry company Bourbon and Boweties, had her first appointment
               with a retail store in Charleston, S.C. She got there four hours late.
In Tampa, USF's part-time MBA program ranks high in state, nation - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 14, 2013 The University of South Florida's part-time MBA is the top program among Florida's
               12 state universities, and No. 16 among public schools in the nation, says a new ranking
               released by Bloomberg Businessweek.
USF part-time MBA program ranked first in state - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 14, 2013 The University of South Florida's part-time MBA program has been ranked first among
               Florida's public universities by Bloomberg Businessweek, university officials said
               Thursday.
Orlando Magic exec talks financing with studentsNovember 8, 2013 Sports teams can be an economic boon to communities -- but often, they need the support
               of their communities to be able to succeed.
Students raise $2K using paperclip - The OracleNovember 7, 2013 A paperclip is primarily used to hold papers together, but some students in the College
               of Business think it just may be able to hold a community together.
USF, Tampa partner with Brazil - The OracleNovember 5, 2013 A few weeks ago, the team from Tampa met with Brazilian officials to sign an agreement
               to make Porto Alegre the ninth sister city to Tampa.
Three alternatives are proving successful for team ticket sales - SportsBusiness JournalNovember 4, 2013 Selling and buying have always existed in one form or another. As society has developed,
               and as technology has evolved and influenced everything that we do, we have always
               searched for the next best way to reach our customers and sell more effectively.
Jabil CEO talks leadership and success with EMBA studentsNovember 1, 2013 "Customers think, 'I don't see a Jabil on a shelf, I can't go out and buy a Jabil,'"
               CEO Mark Mondello said recently, when he came to campus to speak to USF Executive
               MBA students.
Alumni flock to data-driven eventOctober 30, 2013 About 250 alumni and other guests gathered at the College of Business on Oct. 25
               to learn more about data-driven decisions -- from the lessons Boston Market's Chief
               Brand Officer took back from her experience on the "Undercover Boss" TV show, to a
               panel discussion with top-level executives on how they use data in their jobs.
'Undercover Boss' Sara Bittorf speaks at College of Business - The OracleOctober 28, 2013 As part of Homecoming activities, the College of Business went "undercover" Friday
               afternoon, hosting a lecture by Sara Bittorf.
Campeones del estudio - Centro TampaOctober 24, 2013 Educación es poder. Marcos González (izq) y Alvaro Ruiz, son parte de una generación
               de alumnos hispanos con sed de triunfos.
USF relationship with T. Rowe Price spurs student successOctober 22, 2013 Recently, some of USF's best and brightest students were given the opportunity to
               travel to Baltimore and meet with executives at T. Rowe Price's corporate headquarters.
Marketing Professor Fulfills Dream In Bull RunOctober 21, 2013 When Andy Artis' son ran with the bulls in Pamplona six years ago on his 21st birthday,
               the USF associate professor of marketing was proud, but also a little envious.
Sun State President Discusses Career JourneyOctober 21, 2013 Rising through the ranks of International Harvester (now Navistar) in the 1980s and
               1990s, Oscar Horton faced post-civil rights era prejudices.
USF Alumnus On Front Edge Of EducationOctober 21, 2013 "You need to be a decorator crab," Marshall said, comparing professional development
               to the crab's survival mechanism. "Take what you need along the journey that helps
               you conduct the journey."
USF College of Business Goes "Undercover" with Speaking EventOctober 21, 2013 The first executive to ever fire someone on the hit CBS show "Undercover Boss," along
               with other senior-level industry executives, will speak to University of South Florida
               business alumni as part of an event focusing on how companies can collect and use
               information to make better business decisions.
USF Looks At Adding Cybersecurity Program - WFLA.comOctober 18, 2013 Whether it's getting your credit card account hacked, or the National Security Agency
               spying on everyday people, cybersecurity is becoming one of the biggest jobs in information
               technology.
How Latin America Kills Small Businesses -- But How Obama Might Help Them - WRLN.orgOctober 16, 2013 Liliana Arevalo helps run a small company in El Salvador that makes artisanal wines.
               She has received technical assistance from SBNA-related groups.
How to Increase Revenue, Stability in a Practice - Renal & Urology NewsOctober 16, 2013 To make a business successful, entrepreneurs should spend about 60% of their time
               servicing customers. The other 40% should be focused on administrative tasks such
               as human resources and accounting, according to Mario Iezzoni, certified business
               analyst at the Small Business Development Center at University of South Florida.
Congress, shutdown turn Grinch, slow holiday spending plans - Tampa TribuneOctober 16, 2013 Some in the retail industry fear the government stalemate will raise fears among
               consumers, and lead to less spending over the holidays.
White Cloud Electronic Cigarettes Partners with USF for Research Study - Fox 25 48,
                  La Crosse - Eau ClaireOctober 15, 2013 White Cloud Electronic Cigarettes is pleased to announce the signing of a research
               partnership agreement with the University of South Florida's (USF) Marketing Department.
Local and National Experts Come Together to Help Develop USF Cybersecurity ProgramOctober 15, 2013 Discussion to focus on how USF can fill needs and create local jobs in the high-demand
               field.
5 things you need to know happening in Florida on Tuesday, October 15 - ABC Action
                  NewsOctober 15, 2013 The University of South Florida is hosting a discussion on Tuesday to help develop
               a Cybersecurity Program for the school.
5 things you need to know happening in Florida on Tuesday, October 15 - ABC Action
                  News TelevisionOctober 15, 2013 The University of South Florida is hosting a discussion on Tuesday to help develop
               a Cybersecurity Program for the school.
ObamaCare launches, small businesses scramble - MyFox Tampa BayOctober 2, 2013 Many small business owners ventured into new territory Tuesday, having to offer their
               employees health insurance but wondering where to get their questions answered.
'Geeks' have their day at BarCamp Tampa Bay - Tampa TribuneSeptember 28, 2013 Saturday's BarCamp Tampa Bay gave the tech-minded a chance to mingle with like-minded
               geeks at the University of South Florida.
USF Students at Infosys - SPANSeptember 25, 2013 Infosys founder and Executive Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy met with students and
               faculty from the University of South Florida at Bangalore as part of a study abroad
               partnership program between the Tampa-based university and Infosys.
USF Entrepreneurship Program in National RankingsSeptember 20, 2013 USF's graduate program is the only Florida university included in the new rankings
               of the nation's best entrepreneurship education programs.
The Princeton Review & Entrepreneur Magazine Name The Top 50 Schools For Entrepreneurship
                  Programs - CNBCSeptember 19, 2013 The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine announced today the results of The
               Princeton Review's annual survey that names the schools with the top 25 undergraduate
               and top 25 graduate entrepreneurship programs in the nation.
Retailers begin Christmas shopping push - WTSP.comSeptember 17, 2013 The calendar might say September and Halloween is still more than a month away but
               several major retailers already want you to be thinking about the holiday shopping
               season.
How a team injects fun, games into sales culture to good result - SportsBusiness JournalSeptember 16, 2013 The majority of tickets sold for sporting events and teams are probably sold by men
               and women under 30 years old.
From the fields to the classroom - USF OracleSeptember 12, 2013 Migrant field worker becomes rising business student
Distinguished Speaker Series: Dr. Kiran PatelSeptember 10, 2013 When Dr. Kiran Patel was a boy in Zambia, Africa, his father helped their neighbor,
               a widow, negotiate down her debt.
Socom hears Syria analyses from USF students - Tampa TribuneSeptember 8, 2013 Standing before a group of intelligence analysts at U.S. Special Operations Command's
               MacDill Air Force Base headquarters, Maia offered her analysis of what role special
               operations forces should take in the bloody two-year-old Syrian civil war.
USF scholarship recipient emerges from humble beginnings - Tampa Bay TimesSeptember 6, 2013 When Marcos Gonzalez walked to the stage to address the other USF College of Business
               scholarship recipients recently, he wore a fitted suit and tie and carried a bucket
               of unripened tomatoes on his shoulder.
Gettin' Down To Business: Certify Your Company - MyFox Tampa BaySeptember 6, 2013 A new monthly segment with FOX 13, the Small Business Development Center discusses
               women, minority, and disabled veteran certifications for business.
University Beat: Business Scholarships - WUSFSeptember 2013 The College of Business recently celebrated the nearly 200 scholarships awarded to
               its students.
University Beat: Business Scholarships - WUSF RadioSeptember 2013 The numbers are impressive enough on their own, 190 scholarships totaling $380,000
               awarded to College of Business students.
Honor al estudio y preparándose para los negocios - Centro TampaAugust 30, 2013 José Carlos Jarquín y Julio C. Novo no solo comparten el hecho de ser jóvenes, talentosos
               y estudiantes de origen hispano en la Universidad del Sur de la Florida (USF). Hay
               más que eso.
USF's Peru program offers unique opportunityAugust 27, 2013 Growing up in Peru, Jose Fernandez Alvarez always enjoyed his English classes. And
               two years ago when his university, Universidad San Ignacio de Loyola in Lima, announced
               the opportunity to earn a double degree in business administration with both a Spanish
               and English program, he jumped at the chance.
USF Beta Alpha Psi, advisor receive top awardsAugust 27, 2013 Accounting instructor Jennifer Cainas and accounting honor society Beta Alpha Psi
               received top awards at the national Beta Alpha Psi Annual Meeting recently.
Young Bulls in The Big CityAugust 26, 2013 Some young alumni of the College of Business have ventured to New York City to try
               their luck in the Big Apple -- with impressive results.
Executive MBA students learn international business firsthandAugust 26, 2013 The students studied abroad in China this summer and met with corporate partners
               there.
Pinellas Hope Service DayAugust 26, 2013 "Volunteerism is not only a huge part of our program but of the sports community
               itself," said student Katie Hatch "It's a big part of what teams do, so it's preparing
               us for what we'll be in for in the future as well."
USF Hosts Cybersecurity SummitAugust 26, 2013 The new Florida Cybersecurity Center at USF recently hosted a cybersecurity summit
               to discuss issues in the field.
USF Grads Create New Approach To Online Giving - 83 DegreesAugust 20, 2013 People interested in charitable giving now have a way to donate to Tampa Bay's hidden
               gems with complete transparency and assurance that 100 percent of their donation will
               be used for the intended purpose.
Selig to jumpstart Rays stadium talks - ABC Action NewsAugust 16, 2013 They built it, but they didn't come. The Rays ballpark has been the Tropicana Field
               of Nightmares as the team sits in second-to-last place in attendance so far this season,
               a trend that's continued for years.
ISDS ranking reflects program's excellenceAugust 16, 2013 Undergraduates in the College of Business Information Systems and Decision Sciences
               department now have confirmation of what they believed all along: USF has one of the
               best information systems programs in the country.
Industry standouts lead sports into new era of decision-making - SportsBusiness JournalAugust 12, 2013 More than 20 years ago when working with a client, I used a regression analysis to
               explain why certain giveaway items were not driving attendance the way the team thought
               they were.
Business buzz: Entrepreneur workshop; CS&L rates high; Be Creative teams with PGT - Herald-TribuneAugust 9, 2013 Jean Kabongo, assistant professor of management in the College of Business at the
               University of South Florida, Sarasota-Manatee will discuss entrepreneurship, creativity
               and why innovation shapes the marketplace as well as how to be innovative.
Business news and notes for Pasco County - Tampa Bay TimesAugust 9, 2013 The chamber offers free and confidential consultations in partnership with the Small
               Business Development Center at the University of South Florida.
Julius Davis still learning, even from an exec's chair - Tampa Bay Business JournalAugust 2, 2013 Through the USF executive MBA program I'm learning different skills that will improve
               my leadership abilities for my business as well as in the community.
USF College of Business, DTCC Partner To Further Workforce Development - 83 DegreesJuly 30, 2013 With the rapid growth of Tampa Bay's information technology industry creating a need
               for a highly skilled technical workforce, businesses and academia have an opportunity
               to work together to create synergies.
Front lines of the future? Business owners age 30 and younger - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 26, 2013 They are young, creative and adaptable. Experts say they grew up with parents telling
               them they could do anything only to experience the depth of economic lows with the
               recession.
Supply chain management: A look back, a look ahead - CSCMP's Supply Chain QuarterlyJuly 18, 2013 Key events in the past that have made supply chain management what it is today are
               likely to shape what the profession and discipline will become in the future.
Worries over a Florida boycott - FOX 13 NewsJuly 17, 2013 Thousands of people are taking to social media sites, calling on others to join a
               "Boycott Florida" movement until the state repeals the "Stand your Ground" law.
MLB's elusive face of the game - ESPNJuly 16, 2013 Can one of Tuesday's All-Stars become MLB's version of LeBron James?
NBA's TMBO a launchpad for high-level executives - SportsBusiness JournalJuly 15, 2013 In just the past two weeks, Scott O'Neil has been named CEO of the Philadelphia 76ers,
               Chris Granger has been named president of the Sacramento Kings, and Lou DePaoli has
               been named chief revenue officer of the New York Mets.
Ask Farnoosh: What's the Right Business School Program for Me? - Yahoo! FinanceJuly 11, 2013 Irene Hurst, director of MBA programs at the University of South Florida, says prospective
               MBAs should first consider where they are in their career trajectory. Timing matters.
Ask the Experts: Should Small Business Owners Seek Venture Capital Financing? - CardHubJuly 10, 2013 The Great Recession has reinvigorated America's entrepreneurial spirit. As the job
               market soured during the housing market crisis and ensuing economic swoon, business
               creation rates soared to record heights.
Incubator aims to nurture events from idea stage to success - SportsBusiness JournalJuly 1, 2013 Last month, Higgins launched the Event Development Institute. The concept is the
               first sports and entertainment event incubator, where potential ideas for startup
               events and properties are given industry expertise and consulting, financial resources,
               and access to key partnerships. Think of it as a more altruistic version of "Shark
               Tank."
Welcome New Faculty!June 27, 2013 See our new faculty members.
Tampa Bay at a crossroads in nurturing startup culture - Tampa Bay TimesJune 15, 2013 Tampa Bay stands at an innovation crossroads. While its emerging startup community
               exudes enthusiasm, big concerns persist about the long-term viability of this region
               as a serious hub for entrepreneurs.
SBDC at USF interview on Fox 13 regarding Small Business Environment in Tampa - YouTubeJune 5, 2013 Eileen Rodriguez, Regional Director for the Small Business Development Center at
               the University South Florida's College of Business was interviewed on June 5, 2013
               by Fox 13's Russell Rhodes regarding the Small Business climate in Tampa Bay.
Cheerios commercial featuring interracial family draws harsh comments - ABC Action
                  NewsJune 4, 2013 The joke is that she wanted to make his heart healthy. But the reality is, this ad
               that ends in "love" has generated a lot of hate.
How safe is your personal password? - WFLAJune 3, 2013 As we get more tied to our technology, passwords are quickly becoming the keys to
               our lives.
Perfect Pitch - USF MagazineJune 2013 When Casey Henry walked before the panel of judges in the Fintech Business Plan Competition
               in April, she was unsure about her chances of getting funding for her startup business:
               a paintball field.
Bi-Lo to buy Sweetbay: sweet or sour deal? - ABC Action NewsMay 30, 2013 The estimated $267 million sale to Bi-Lo of Jacksonville could lead to possible business
               growth, according to marketing professor Dip Biswas of USF.
A leap of faith - The HinduMay 26, 2013 Karthik Chandrasekaran shares his thoughts on the MIS programme at the University
               of South Florida.
Vietnamese students explore the emergent field of Management Information Systems (MIS)
                     and its career opportunities in the US - VietweekMay 17, 2013 For students who are passionate about studying in the United States, Education USA
               is not a strange name.
The Second Annual Tampa Bay Entrepreneurship GalaMay 15, 2013 Wearing offbeat bowties or eccentric jackets in keeping with the night's "creative
               black tie" theme, the attendees at the Second Annual Tampa Bay Entrepreneurship Gala
               showed off the creative spirits that made them successful entrepreneurs.
USF business students receive prestigious scholarshipsMay 15, 2013 Five USF College of Business undergraduate students will be studying abroad this
               summer on prestigious scholarships.
Paintball plan wins business competition - The Tampa TribuneMay 15, 2013 She was up against executive MBAs, lawyers and engineers pitching services from biomedical
               waste disposal to feeding the poor. Undergraduate Casey Henry had to sell a panel
               of entrepreneurs on her passion.
MBA students advise USF Health center on marketingMay 10, 2013 From the Board Room to the Exam Room, Monsour Executive Wellness Center at USF Health
Coca Cola Japan CEO talks about USF MBAMay 10, 2013 Coca Cola Japan CEO Michael Coombs likes to think of himself as a student in the
               university of life.
Business Honors Program helps great students thriveMay 10, 2013 Although Ambily Joseph graduated this spring after only three years at USF, she doesn't
               feel like she's missed out on the opportunities college offers.
USF to host healthcare innovation competitionMay 9, 2013 Next week, innovators from across the state will gather in downtown Tampa to share
               their ideas for revolutionizing the quality and delivery of healthcare -- and they
               may receive a chance to make those ideas reality.
USF Entrepreneurs Face Off for $15K - WUSFMay 1, 2013 If the success of the last two winners of the USF Center for Entrepreneurship 's
               Fintech Business Plan Competition is any indication, the future may be promising for
               Casey Henry and South Tampa Paintball .
Elevator Interview - WUSFApril 2013 USF Business students recently took part in a contest where they had sixty seconds—the
               length of an elevator ride in one of Tampa's tallest buildings—to see who had the
               best self-pitch.
The Business of Ballroom Dancing - USF NewsApril 29, 2013 USF students in the College of Business turn to the dance floor to become comfortable
               in the corporate world.
USF program helps students manage money, debt - Tampa Bay TimesApril 28, 2013 Six business students sat in a classroom at the University of South Florida, facing
               a screen with concern and curiosity. They were ready to graduate, and the reality
               of the massive amounts of money they'd borrowed was sinking in.
Hernando County business digest - Tampa Bay TimesApril 27, 2013 The Florida Small Business Development Center Network is bringing four experts to
               Hernando County to help serve the growing needs of business owners with free consulting
Pasco business digest for April 28 - Tampa Bay TimesApril 27, 2013 The chamber offers free and confidential consultations in partnership with the Small
               Business Development Center at the University of South Florida.
Living Learning Communities continue to grow on campus - USF OracleApril 25, 2013 Living Learning Communities (LLCs), or residential communities that focus on either
               an academic major or a special interest, have sprung up around campus over the past
               six years and may continue to grow.
USF Student Makes Cosmetics From Moroccan Oil Plant - 83 DegreesApril 23, 2013 In March 2012, Abdelaoui launched Prettymanagement.com, an online solution that allows
               beauty salon and spa managers to manage their customers, inventory, staff and marketing.
USF students learn business skills through ballroom dancing - Tampa Bay TimesApril 16, 2013 When Sade's Smooth Operator came on, the dance teacher clenched his teeth into a
               grin, pointed both fingers to his cheeks and instructed his class to follow suit.
               It was, after all, the ultimate job skill.
Sport professionals talk analyticsApril 11, 2013 Professionals in the sport and entertainment management industry know that when they
               tell people what they do for a living, it often seems like a glamorous career to those
               on the outside, one that conjures images of work hours spent in boxes at baseball
               games or backstage at concerts.
Elevator CompetitionApril 11, 2013 Instead of sleeping in like many of their peers, 25 sharply dressed students in dark
               business suits and conservative shoes headed into downtown Tampa's Regions Bank tower
               early Saturday morning, mentally rehearsing what they planned to say to an area hiring
               manager awaiting in the elevators.
AACSB announces new accreditation standards for business schools - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 10, 2013 For the first time in 10 years, AACSB International, or the Association to Advance
               Collegiate Schools of Business, has recast its standards for business school accreditation.
Florida business schools face new accreditation standards - Tampa Bay TimesApril 9, 2013 Young people have lived through the Great Recession, seen banks collapse and corporate
               leaders hauled away in handcuffs. They've watched the housing bubble burst, their
               parents endure layoffs and foreclosures. They've entered a world of burgeoning student
               loans and new technologies.
Ideas Sought Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition, Tampa - 83 DegreesApril 9, 2013 Do you have an idea for a product or service that will help improve healthcare? Maybe
               you want to improve patient engagement or health provider effectiveness? Submit your
               innovation to the 2013 First Annual State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition.
Balancing content, frequency is central to managing up - Sports Business JournalApril 8, 2013 Managing up is at its very essence a communication strategy and practice for keeping
               your "boss" informed. The challenge is determining the content (what the boss should
               know) and the frequency (how often you should be communicating).
Column: Putting brakes on health care costs - Tampa Bay TimesApril 7, 2013 With millions of Americans rapidly approaching an age where they will be covered
               by Medicare and additional millions soon to be insured by the Affordable Care Act,
               there is no question that government's total expenditures on health care will increase.
USF hosts business plan battle with $15,000 top prize - WFLA.comApril 5, 2013 The University of South Florida Center for Entrepreneurship at the College of Business
               hosted a unique business plan competition among students Friday.
Paintball business wins entrepreneurial contest at the University of South Florida - Tampa Bay TimesApril 5, 2013 Seven groups of entrepreneurs went into the University of South Florida's version
               of the Shark Tank on Friday. One came out with the top prize — a $15,000 check to
               help fund their startup.
Undergraduate-owned business wins $15,000April 5, 2013 If you don't think competitive paintball sounds like a lucrative, innovative business
               proposition, think again.
Local companies partner with marketing department to close jobs gapApril 5, 2013 Ashley Macaluso, a 2007 marketing grad, has come a long way only to find herself
               right back where she started – in class at USF. The difference is that this time around
               she is in front of the class, featured as a guest lecturer representing her employer,
               Bayshore Solutions.
Fintech partnerships benefit students, companyApril 5, 2013 A longtime businessman and serial entrepreneur, Scott Riley used to think of internships
               as students answering phones or getting coffee over their summer break.
EDC, USF to host real estate workshop - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 3, 2013 The Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corp. and the University of South Florida
               will present an educational workshop on April 25 highlighting opportunities for commercial
               real estate professionals through the EDC and USF's College of Business.
USF College of Business Maintains AACSB AccreditationApril 2, 2013 The USF College of Business and the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy were recognized
               for excellence this week when the Board of Directors of AACSB International reaffirmed
               their accreditation,
USF Offers Scholarship for Non-profit Executives to Earn an MBAMarch 28, 2013 Applications for the scholarship are due no later than June 1, 2013
USF AMA, advisor receive top awardsMarch 25, 2013 USF's American Marketing Association received a Silver Chapter Award at the association's
               awards banquet on Saturday in New Orleans, continuing the student organization's run
               as a top chapter in North America.
Fintech Nurtures New Generation of USF Student Entrepreneurs - Yahoo! NewsMarch 12, 2013 Fintech believes fostering new generations of business students leads to better prepared
               graduates and savvier entrepreneurs.
USF's Executive MBA Program Builds Confidence, Careers - Florida TrendMarch 11, 2013 With her busy work and family life, Chitty said the structure of the University of
               South Florida's Executive MBA was the only way she could complete the degree.
Florida's MBA professors are pushing the limits - Florida TrendMarch 11, 2013 Professors talk about their approaches to teaching leadership skills.
Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy programs make top rankingsMarch 8, 2013 For the first time, the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy's undergraduate
               and graduate programs are both ranked in the top 50 accounting programs nationally.
Auditors notice execs' ego, new study by USF instructor finds - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 4, 2013 By the time Randy Kuhn started living out of a hotel to audit one of the biggest
               corporate fraud scandals in history, many of the major players already had been handcuffed.
Business Woman - Reachout - WUSF University BeatMarch 2013 USF's College of Business recently hosted members of the "Committee of 200," an organization
               made up of some of the leading women in business.
Citizens Insurance report shows employees watching porn, gambling on the job - ABC
                  Action NewsFebruary 28, 2013 "How did these people get hired in the first place? But that being said, they got
               caught in a net. They're dealing with that catch the best they can," said USF Business
               Ethics Lecturer Sharon Hanna-West.
Yahoo surprises with work and home news - WFLA-TV, News channel 8February 27, 2013 Workers and tech watchers were buzzing Wednesday on reports that Yahoo will no longer
               allow employees to work from home, starting this summer.
CEOs Impart Wisdom - USF NewsFebruary 27, 2013 Women business leaders, part of the Committee of 200, spent the day sharing experiences
               and ideas with USF students.
Smith: Tampa Bay community offers a variety of business opportunities for women - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 26, 2013 Students at the University of South Florida will have the chance to hear top women
               executives from the Committee of 200 speak at the school on Tuesday.
Female executives talk shop with USF business students - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 26, 2013 The next class of female CEOs donned crisp suits and gathered in the atrium of the
               University of South Florida's business school, their peers flip-flopping behind them
               on the way to class.
Accounting professor finds auditors spot narcissistsFebruary 22, 2013 "Auditors do make that conscious relationship between a narcissistic type of person
               and fraud," Kuhn said. "Evidence shows those type of individuals believe they're above
               the law."
Top women executives set to speak at USF - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 20, 2013 Roughly 20 women CEOs and other top executives from the Committee of 200 will speak
               to students at the University of South Florida on Feb. 26.
Nation's Top Women in Business to Share Expertise with USF Students - Tampa Bay NewswireFebruary 20, 2013 Aspiring business leaders from the University of South Florida will get an opportunity
               to work directly with some of the most successful women executives in the country
               during an event on Tuesday, Feb. 26.
Workshop targets one-stop shop for small businesses - Tampa Bay OnlineFebruary 15, 2013 Tampa City Councilwoman Lisa Montelione would like to give Scott and the rest of
               Tampa's small-business owners a hand in tough economic times.
Former professor gives $100,000 to Business Honors ProgramFebruary 15, 2013 Former Management Professor Dick Dutton donated $100,000 to the program, saying he
               wanted to be a part of a new program that could use additional funding to make its
               mark on the university.
Mixing Love & Business: Tips to Owning a Business with Someone you Love - SBDC Tampa
                  BayFebruary 14, 2013 Unless you're mixing love and business, cash flow projections, feasibility analyses
               and marketing plans aren't in the typical date night convo.
SBDC gets $50,000 grant to help businessesFebruary 13, 2013 "Wells Fargo chose the Small Business Development Center as a recipient because its
               small business training and consulting helps entrepreneurs create the jobs needed
               in order for people to become homeowners," Wells Fargo Regional President Carl Miller
               said.
USF program helps women lead the team - My Fox Tampa BayFebruary 11, 2013 When Jamie Grant looked around the room, she couldn't believe it. "I was shocked
               when I saw how many women are in the program," said Grant, a student in the new Sport
               and Entertainment Management MBA program at USF.
Fintech Business Plan Competition Seeks Student EntrepreneursFebruary 11, 2013 USF student-entrepreneurs looking for cash flow to get their startup companies off
               the ground don't have to look far.
USF accountancy school earns top ranking - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 7, 2013 The USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy has been ranked first in the nation
               in the accounting information system field.
USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy receives top rank in accounting information
                     systems research - USF Research & InnovationFebruary 7, 2013 The USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy is ranked first in the nation in the
               accounting information systems field, with its faculty leading the way in research
               at the intersection of accounting and information technology.
10th Coalition on Intercollegiate Athletics Sparks Faculty DiscussionFebruary 7, 2013 More than 50 faculty representatives from various universities recently sat down
               at USF with officials from the NCAA and worked to ensure that college athletics don't
               detract from the university's academic mission.
Amphitheatre needs a new name - WTSP.comFebruary 5, 2013 So why are companies willing to pay big bucks to put their name on a building? USF
               Marketing Professor Dip Biswas says it's a way to gain name recognition and advertise,
               without hitting people over the head.
USF researcher examines why people text and drive - WFLA-TV, News channel 8January 31, 2013 A researcher at the University of South Florida believes it's going to take more
               than a ban on texting behind the wheel to actually keep people from doing it.
Distinguished speakers make USF appearancesJanuary 22, 2013 A full slate of business leaders will appear at the USF College of Business this
               spring to share their business expertise, life lessons, and personal wisdom with students.
Fifth Annual Elevator Competition approachingJanuary 16, 2013 For the fifth year, the College of Business is sending its students to the elevators
               -- literally.
Corporate Mentor Program spurs student successJanuary 16, 2013 Corporate Mentor Program Director J.R. Haworth said not only did these students have
               job offers upon graduating, but many of them students had multiple companies hoping
               to hire them at above-average salaries.
Leading businesswomen coming to USFJanuary 15, 2013 Nearly two dozen of the world's top women in business will be coming to USF's College
               of Business February 26 to share their expertise with USF students in a series of
               of breakout sessions highlighting the positive aspects of a business career.
Dell Executive Teaches InnovationJanuary 11, 2013 "Customers don't know what they don't know," Stikeleather said. "You can do all kinds
               of market surveys, and you'll never innovate if you do that."
ANALYSIS-NHL-Winning Stanley Cup may be easier than winning back fans - Yahoo! SportsJanuary 7, 2013 "I don't think there will be a backlash but I do think there will be some apathy,"
               Sutton told Reuters. "I think some people are already over it, they've moved on, spent
               their money, spent their time, made their commitments.
USF's new business dean will speak to New Tampa Rotarians - Tampa Bay OnlineJanuary 3, 2013 Moez Limayem, the University of South Florida's new dean of the College of Business,
               will be the featured speaker at the Jan. 4 gathering of the Rotary Club of New Tampa.
FedEx CIO Offers Insight into Future of TechnologyJanuary 3, 2013 FedEx Chief Information Officer Rob Carter said the technology boom of this century
               is only beginning.
Online Masters - WUSF University BeatJanuary 2013 USF is offering a pair of new Master's degrees: one in electrical engineering and
               another in management information sciences.
Back to top
2012
Creating Your Own Job: Preparing for the Unexpected - Tampa Bay Community NetDec 27, 2012 Watch video on YouTube
USF professor charts local house pricesDecember 12, 2012 USF Professor Greg Smersh knows the ins and outs of Florida's complex and high-profile
               real estate market.
Professor receives teaching awardDecember 12, 2012 Professor Rick Kelso says his experience in business reminds him that in this line
               of work, the student is the customer.
Verizon teams up with marketing studentsDecember 10, 2012 Looking to a target market for fresh ideas, Verizon FiOS turned to USF students for
               inspiration.
Cancer researcher finds business acumen with USF MBADecember 7, 2012 Jillaina Menth said she cried every day her first semester in the MBA program.
New convenience stores could bring gas price wars - MyFox Tampa BayDecember 3, 2012 USF marketing professor Dip Biswas says a gasoline price war could break out because
               of the new stores, but they like that.
Best day for holiday shopping is later in the season; buy gifts after December 17
                  - ABC Action NewsNovember 27, 2012 Biswas, with USF's Marketing department, says if you procrastinate until December
               17, the final week before Christmas, it may save you money.
Getting to know USF Dean of College of Business Moez Limayem with this week's 10 questions
                  for? - ABC Action NewsNovember 27, 2012 This week we hear from a dean at one of the biggest universities in the U.S. and
               among the top three in Florida: Dean of USF College of Business Moez Limayem.
Malls follow major retailers' lead and open at midnight on Black Friday - Tampa Bay TimesNovember 21, 2012 First the major retailers got an early jump on Black Friday. Now the rest of the
               mall is joining the party.
Power of Gratitude: Giving Thanks - Gulfport PatchNovember 21, 2012 Thanksgiving is the time to focus on gratitude, giving and the tradition of sharing.
               Gratitude has the power to heal, energize and give hope.
Teams looking closer at secondary ticket market - Hawaii News NowNovember 21, 2012 A few hours before Michael Bourn stepped into the batter's box for Jeff Locke's first
               pitch, there were 23 tickets listed on StubHub.com for 15 cents or less.
Is Black Friday starting too early? - ABC Action NewsNovember 20, 2012 If you have been paying attention to those Black Friday TV ads, you may notice a
               trend. Some of the big sales actually begin Thursday.
The dark side of earlier Black Friday: Millions of workers miss Thanksgiving with
                  family - ABC Action NewsNovember 20, 2012 By one count, over 2 million people have signed online petitions asking Target to
               reverse their decision to open at 9 PM Thursday.
Black Friday or Black Thursday? - The Bradenton TimesNovember 20, 2012 University of South Florida marketing professors in the College of Business see a
               trend in which this year's Thanksgiving Day deals could become the norm.
Ellis Levin | Forensic accountant, 65 - Philadelphia InquirerNovember 16, 2012 In the arcane world of accounting irregularities and audit failures, Mr. Levin was
               widely considered a whiz, driven by a passion to "get at the truth," as his family
               put it.
Management Instructor Receives Undergraduate Teaching AwardNovember 15, 2012 Management Instructor Rick Kelso was presented with the university-wide Outstanding
               Undergraduate Teaching Award on Wednesday morning by Vice Provost Kofi Glover, Associate
               Dean Jacqueline Reck, and Management Department Chair Sally Fuller. Congratulations!
Raymond James COO Shares Advice with StudentsNovember 15, 2012 When Raymond James Chief Operating Officer Dennis Zank told his father that he wanted
               to go to college, the response wasn't one most young people would hope for.
Facebook stock jumps as lockup expires - USA TodayNovember 14, 2012 Shares of Facebook (FB) rose sharply Wednesday, surprising some investors, who expected
               the stock to fall after 777 million more shares were unlocked, allowing employees
               to sell.
Facebook faces massive stock lockup expiration - Detroit Free PressNovember 14, 2012 Today is when 777 million more shares of the No. 1 social-networking company are
               unlocked and available for sale.
Facebook faces massive stock lockup expiration - USA TodayNovember 13, 2012 The day Facebook (FB) investors have been dreading since the company went public
               is here.
Elders' Advocates Worry Politics May Push Vital Programs Off 'Fiscal Cliff' - New
                  America MediaNovember 12, 2012 Since last week's win by President Barack Obama, the issues of aging and retirement
               have loomed just beneath the headlines.
Foundation volunteers help students thrive - News ChiefNovember 12, 2012 He's "Uncle Kevin" to Jessi Searing and Ashley Woodard, two former Auburndale High
               School students who now attend the University of South Florida.
Indian interest in US varsity's online master's degree - News Track IndiaNovember 1, 2012 Several Indian institutions have expressed interest in a newly-launched University
               of South Florida's fully online Master of Science in Management Information Systems
               degree programme, the Tampa Florida-based university said.
Indian interest in US varsity's online master's degree - TwoCircles.netNovember 1, 2012 The degree for the programme focusing on advanced analytic technologies, business
               intelligence, and big data is being offered through a partnership between USF's College
               of Business and University College.
Study proves multitasking on Facebook could benefit - The OracleOctober 30, 2012 A recent series of studies show that for some, Facebook may not always be detrimental
               to student academic performance.
Superstorm freezes political campaigning - ABC Action NewsOctober 30, 2012 With eight days left until the election, both campaigns are sprinting towards the
               finish line, but Superstorm Sandy has stopped their ground game like a roadblock.
Undergraduate Case Competition Sparks Student InnovationOctober 30, 2012 Have you ever gone up to an airline counter with an overloaded bag, wishing you could
               just mail the unnecessary items home and avoid the baggage fees?
Wells Fargo Gives Back Through Partnership With Corporate Mentor ProgramOctober 30, 2012 The Corporate Mentor Program will be able to enhance its mentoring opportunities
               for both USF students and local middle schoolers, thanks to a recent $25,000 gift
               from Wells Fargo.
Analyzing Digital Domain stock not a perfect science - TCPalmOctober 27, 2012 While Digital Domain Media Group's stock prices were tanking this summer, three rating
               analysts were recommending that investors buy until shortly before the company's Sept.
               11 bankruptcy.
Presidential campaign trail winds through South County - The Observer NewsOctober 25, 2012 With just under two weeks left in the campaign, it is possible, although as of yet
               unscheduled, that the trail that leads to the White House will again run through South
               County.
USF Alumnus, now Delta Air Lines Senior VP, helps students anticipate real worldOctober 25, 2012 When Mike Randolfi graduated from USF in 1993 with a finance degree, he immediately
               went to work for Raymond James as a staff accountant.
USF Launches Online Master's Degree in Management Information SystemsOctober 25, 2012 USF has launched a fully online Master of Science in Management Information Systems
               degree program, focusing on advanced analytic technologies, business intelligence,
               and big data.
Business Briefcase - Hernando TodayOctober 24, 2012 The board of directors wants to remind you that the Small Business Development Center
               (SBDC) at the University of South Florida (USF) has partnered with the Chamber of
               Commerce to provide free business consultation to small businesses and entrepreneurs
               in Hernando County
Distinguished University Professor Jim Stock Talks "Seven Sins of Reverse Logistics"October 24, 2012 Every year, consumers in the United States return enough products to total a greater
               dollar value than what 66 percent of countries in the world have as their GDPs.
Biden, Ryan campaign in Tampa Bay - Bradenton HeraldOctober 20, 2012 A week after engaging in a televised debate in Kentucky, Vice President Joe Biden
               and Republican vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan nearly crossed paths in the Tampa
               Bay area on Friday.
Ryan learns about USF, Entrepreneurship - The OracleOctober 20, 2012 USF saw one more person who wanted to learn Friday — vice presidential candidate
               Rep. Paul Ryan.
GOP pounces after news of CIA cable on Libya raid - timesfreepress.comOctober 20, 2012 Sensing a moment of political vulnerability on national security, Republicans pounced
               Friday on disclosures that President Barack Obama's administration could have known
               early on that militants, not angry protesters, launched the attack on U.S. diplomats
               in Libya.
Ray of Sunshine as Mitt widens Fla. gap - New York PostOctober 20, 2012 The presidential campaigns yesterday turned up the heat in Florida, as a new poll
               showed Mitt Romney increasing his lead in that crucial battleground.
Paul Ryan stumps in Tampa about importance of entrepreneurial spirit - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 20, 2012 Republican vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan visits the Tampa Bay Technology
               Incubator at USF in Tampa on Friday.
Biden, Ryan battle for voters in Tampa Bay area - Tampa Bay OnlineOctober 19, 2012 With the Nov. 6 election less than three weeks away, and with Florida still chased
               by the campaigns as a swing state, both Joe Biden and Paul Ryan pitched their presidential
               tickets today at different ends of Hillsborough County.
Presidential campaigns descend upon Bay area - 13 NewsOctober 19, 2012 Friday, GOP candidate Mitt Romney, Vice President Joe Biden and GOP Vice Presidential
               nominee Paul Ryan are all in the state with both VP candidates holding events in Tampa.
Biden, Ryan Conduct Dueling Vice Presidential Campaigns in Hillsborough County - WUSF NewsOctober 19, 2012 Biden, Ryan Conduct Dueling Vice Presidential Campaigns in Hillsborough County
Presidential campaigns descend upon Bay area - Bay News 9October 19, 2012 Vice President Joe Biden spoke at a rally in Sun City Center, while GOP Vice Presidential
               nominee Paul Ryan stopped by the University of South Florida.
Candidates descend on crucial Fla in final weeks - Wink News NowOctober 19, 2012 Vice presidential hopeful Paul Ryan attended a round table discussion at University
               of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship in Tampa to talk about the economy
               and jobs.
Vice presidential candidates Joe Biden, Paul Ryan make stops in Tampa Bay area - ABC
                  Action NewsOctober 19, 2012 Both vice presidential candidates made their way around the crucial election state
               of Florida Friday, trying to shore up support from the party faithful and trying to
               sway undecided voters in the final weeks of the campaign.
Biden, Ryan barnstorm in swing-state Florida - dallasnews.comOctober 19, 2012 Ryan attended a round-table discussion on jobs and the economy at the University
               of South Florida's Center for Entrepreneurship in Tampa.
Ryan, Biden court Fla. voters before final debate - The Miami HeraldOctober 19, 2012 In dueling Florida appearances on Friday, Vice President Joe Biden portrayed Republican
               Mitt Romney as out of touch while Romney running mate Paul Ryan said President Barack
               Obama is blaming the country's problems on everyone but himself.
Biden and Ryan nearly cross paths in Florida - The Washington PostOctober 19, 2012 GOP vice-presidential nominee Paul Ryan and Vice President Joe Biden both spent their
               Friday rallying supporters in Florida, the biggest electoral college prize among the
               country's swing states.
Biden, Ryan battle for voters in Tampa Bay area - Tampa Bay OnlineOctober 19, 2012 With the Nov. 6 election less than three weeks away, and with Florida still chased
               by the campaigns as a swing state, both Joe Biden and Paul Ryan pitched their presidential
               tickets today at different ends of Hillsborough County.
Vice Presidential Nominee, Paul Ryan Discusses EntrepreneurshipOctober 19, 2012 USF held a roundtable discussion on entrepreneurship Friday afternoon, featuring
               U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan, the Republican vice presidential nominee.
The fallout: a challenging chapter for Armstrong, foundation ahead - statesman.comOctober 18, 2012 "Everybody is going to be looking at it like it's under a microscope," said Bill
               Sutton, a business professor and director of the University of South Florida's Sport
               and Entertainment Management program.
Professor Dip Biswas comments on the effects of scandal on celebrity - WTSP.comOctober 16, 2012 University of South Florida College of Business Professor of Marketing Dr. Dip Biswas
               says given Hogan's image as a wrestler or action star, it's hard to find a downside
               to the tape being leaked.
Finance Professionals Grill Students on Stock RecommendationsOctober 12, 2012 Finance majors in the Applied Security Analysis class that runs the USF Student Managed
               Investment Fund had their first presentation of the year on Thursday, presenting stock
               analysis and recommendations to a room full of seasoned finance professionals.
We have lift-off: Now a broad Tampa Bay team will try to build better technology workforce - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 12, 2012 Wake up and good morning. It used to take a village but when it comes to getting
               its technology workforce up to snuff and prepared to grow, it will take the entire
               Tampa Bay region.
Signs of a comeback in small business lending - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 7, 2012 Name a charity and Karen Conroy's small business, Fundraising for a Cause, has a
               product line to help people raise money for it.
Eileen Rodriguez receives awardOctober 4, 2012 The USF Society of Latinos (SOL) has named Small Business Development Center Regional
               Director Eileen Rodriguez the recipient of its 2012 USF SOL Staff Award.
College programs offer Tampa Bay area entrepreneurs a head start - Tampa Bay TimesOctober 1, 2012 While most college students don't create multimillion dollar startups, college entrepreneurship
               is a growing trend. And universities and colleges are capitalizing on a new market.
               Numbers of them now offer a major in entrepreneurship.
Research Alliance - USF MagazineFall 2012 The new alliance marries data with academic research. It gives USF the ability to
               access data and do projects that no other universities can. It gives students experience
               with massive, real-world data sets.
USF's entrepreneurship program climbs up Princeton Review list - Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 26, 2012 In a survey of more than 2,000 undergraduate and business school entrepreneurship
               training programs, the Princeton Review named University of South Florida's graduate
               interdisciplinary entrepreneurship program one of the top 25 programs in the United
               States.
USF Entrepreneurship Program Named Among Best in U.S. - Tampa Bay NewswireSeptember 25, 2012 The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur Magazine rank USF's interdisciplinary program
               among the top 25 programs in the nation
5 Things to Know about New USF Business Dean - WUSF NewsSeptember 18, 2012 Moez Limayem has been named the new dean for the USF College of Business. Here are
               five things to know about the man who succeeds Robert Forsythe, who served as dean
               since 2006.
Nielsen brings opportunities to USF through new partnership - USF OracleSeptember 17, 2012 College of Business Dean Moez Limayem describes USF's new partnership with the Nielsen
               Company in three words: "Win win win!"
Tampa Bay Business Journal - ABC Action NewsSeptember 7, 2012 In this week's Tampa Bay Business Journal report, editor Alexis Muellner the implications
               of distracted driving on businesses, a Tampa panel addressing workplace bullying and
               the new divorce methods Hillsborough County courts are using.
New Business Dean - WUSF RadioSeptember, 2012 There's a new leader of the Bulls' business herd, and he brings an international
               pedigree with him. This week's University Beat on WUSF 89.7 introduces you to Moez
               Limayem, who was recently named dean of USF's College of Business.
Stocks: The 'Lockup' Effect - The Wall Street JournalAugust 17, 2012 Three months after its initial public offering, Facebook already is down almost 50%
               from its $38 offering price. The worst might be yet to come.
College Branding - Gulf Coast Business ReviewAugust 17, 2012 As the new dean of the University of South Florida's College of Business, Moez Limayem
               is drawing on his global experience to find ways to make the admittedly plain college
               stand out.
Chick-fil-A Appears To Lose Little Support From Sponsors - WTSP.comAugust 3, 2012 The view of Chick-fil-A's president supporting a traditional marriage struck a nerve
               with some people who are for it and against it. How has it affected sponsorship?
Front Row Tampa Bay: USF College of Business - USF NewsAugust 2012 The USF College of Business was featured during a roundtable discussion on business
               partnerships.
One Tampa start-up finds success with a sport they love, stand-up paddle-boards -
                  ABC Action NewsJuly 30, 2012 You might be surprised to find out that even in a fragile economy, starting your
               own business could indeed be your path to success and happiness.
The Multiple Levers of Reverse Logistics - EBN OnlineJuly 30, 2012 Increasingly, reverse logistics are seen as a competitive advantage in the supply
               chain. "Individual firms and supply chains will continue to seek ways to achieve competitive
               advantage," writes James R. Stock, professor of marketing and logistics, at the University
               of South Florida
Sights, sounds and smells affect cravings, USF professor confirms - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 27, 2012 "It almost always happens at a subconscious level," Biswas said. "You know you like
               something, you don't know why. You just enjoy it."
Same chain store doesn't always mean same merchandise - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 23, 2012 "Retailers are making a much better use of technology now to match up the demographics
               with their stores. They do track on a store-by-store basis as to what products sell,
               and then they can tailor their orders to that."
Tom Benson has a grip on all things sports in New Orleans after snatching up the Hornets - The Times-PicayuneJuly 22, 2012 Big-money deals struck recently by the Saints and Hornets on consecutive days provide
               fresh evidence that Tom Benson is far and away the No. 1 sports power broker in south
               Louisiana.
Orange Juice TV Ads Also Target Away-From-Home Consumers - The LedgerJuly 21, 2012 About 40 percent of annual U.S. orange juice consumption occurs away from the home
               at restaurants, schools, hotels and through various other food service vendors, according
               to the Florida Department of Citrus.
TV ads also target away-from-home consumers - NewsChief.comJuly 20, 2012 "Even if the target is the supermarket buyer, there are spillover effects that would
               reach the restaurant consumer," said Dipayan Biswas, associate professor of marketing
               at the University of South Florida's College of Business Administration.
The Secrets of Sensory Marketing - WUSF NewsJuly 17, 2012 Have you ever been tempted by the smell of a bakery? Drawn in by the color of the
               walls of a restaurant? It's called "sensory marketing," a field that USF Associate
               Professor of Marketing Dipayan Biswas knows a lot about.
SBDC planning workshop on July 25 - newssun.comJuly 15, 2012 From how to determine feasibility and legal structure to the type of license you
               will need, this class covers all the essentials that will help you get started.
New dean wants USF business school to stand out - Tampa Bay TimesJuly 15, 2012 Just a couple of weeks into his new job as dean of the University of South Florida
               College of Business and he's already offering up strong opinions about establishing
               the right flavor for the school.
Does MLB Commissioner Bud Selig have an agenda when ripping Tampa Bay Rays attendance?
                  - WTSP 10 NewsJuly 11, 2012 Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig back at it again, ripping the Rays attendance
               issues by calling the situation "inexcusable" and "disappointing."
Measuring the Brain's Reactions to Misleading Advertising - WUSF NewsJuly 10, 2012 USF Assistant Professor of Marketing Adam Craig is studying how our brains react
               to advertising—particularly deceptive ads—and he's using neuroscience techniques to
               do so.
Building a Global Business - USF NewsJuly 5, 2012 Former USF student is growing an international business around translating languages
               through the Small Business Development Center at USF.
Experts differ on impact of Lake Worth name change - Palm Beach PostJuly 4, 2012 Several cities in Florida have sought to advertise their coastal locations with name
               changes.
University of South Florida Honors Narayana Murthy - India WestJuly 2, 2012 Infosys chief mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida in recognition of his
               entrepreneurial spirit.
Sensory Marketing - WUSFJuly, 2012 Dispayan Biswas discusses how our senses affect our purchasing decisions.
How Our Brains React to Advertising - University Beat, WUSFJuly, 2012 We talk to a marketing professor who is working with neuroscience researchers to
               analyze how people respond to advertising.
Building a Dream Team at USF - Street & Smith's Sportsbusiness JournalJune 25, 2012 Located in Tampa, the University of South Florida recently announced that it will
               offer an MBA in Sport and Entertainment Management.
The Tunisian Moez Limayem appointed dean at the University of South Florida - LeadersJune 24, 2012 Dr. Moez Limayem, prominent Tunisian academic specializing in management information
               systems has been appointed dean of the College of Business at the University of South
               Florida.
Florida university studies brain responses to deceptive advertising - McClatchy Washington
                  BureauJune 20, 2012 Ever wonder why you fell for that late-night infomercial selling the magical powers
               of a $150 fruit juicer that's never been removed from the box? Researchers at the
               University of South Florida have asked themselves that very question.
Reacting to Advertising - USF NewsJune 06, 2012 A USF business professor is working with a research team to analyze how people respond
               to advertising.
Good news-bad news scenarios for Groupon shares - Chicago BusinessJune 01, 2012 Groupon Inc.'s sagging stock price could prompt employees and early investors to
               hang onto their shares after sale restrictions vanish today.
Infosys' Dr. Narayana Murthy Receives 2 Awards in Tampa - Khaas BaatJune, 2012 The founder and chairman emeritus of Infosys Technologies was at University of South
               Florida (USF) for daylong activities, which included meeting students, faculty and
               staff.
Job prospects improve for college grads - WFLA-TV, Newschannel 8May 30, 2012 In a story on improving job prospects for college graduates, it is noted that MIS
               degrees are among the most sought-after degrees in today's market.
Ryan's block grant plan would fray U.S. safety net - Tampa Bay TimesMay 30, 2012 Charles Kroncke discusses block grants and "New Federalism" in an opinion column.
Workshop to tackle financial statements - Tampa TribuneMay 28, 2012 USF's Small Business Development Center hosts a financial intelligence workshop.
Hey, do corporations need any more tax cuts? - Tampa Bay TimesMay 27, 2012 Accounting professor Ryan Huston points out that a columnist might be "mixing and
               matching concepts that don't necessarily fit" in a column on corporate tax breaks.
Small biz seminars planned - The News-Sun (Highlands County)May 27, 2012 USF's Small Business Development Center offers free seminars for those seeking to
               launch a small business
Boynton Beach embarks on costly reinvention - South Florida Sun Sentinel/WPTV-TV,
                  Newschannel 5May 26, 2012 USF marketing professor Anand Kumar notes that authenticity is important when promoting
               regional attributes
Facebook ripple on IPO market already felt - Chicago TribuneMay 25, 2012 Finance professor Dan Bradley is quoted in article on Facebook's "ripple on IPO market,"
               saying the IPO offers lessons for underwriters, insurers, and others.
Infosys leader Murthy gets top award, makes impact in the US - India America TodayMay 19, 2012 University of South Florida leadership and faculty members, College of Business and
               Engineering students and the university's Indian community flocked to a series of
               events this week that featured time to engage with N.R. Narayana Murthy, the renowned
               international business leader.
The case for student loans - Tampa Bay TimesMay 18, 2012 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke builds a case for student loans in guest column for
               the Times' opinion pages.
What women want...in a restaurant - MyFox Tampa BayMay 18, 2012 You know about Hooters, the restaurant chain founded locally, which is aimed at men.
               But are there restaurants aimed at women? The answer: Just about all of them.
U.S. Varsity Honors Narayana Murthy - Chicago DarpanMay 18, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Infosys Leader Makes Impact - USF NewsMay 18, 2012 N.R. Narayana Murthy spent a whirlwind day at USF, receiving top honors and reflecting
               on the importance of sustainability.
U.S. Varsity Honors Narayana Murthy - Atlanta DarpanMay 18, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Infosys Founder Narayan Murthy awarded by Florida University - Bihar PrabhaMay 17, 2012 Infosys Founder and currently its Chief Mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated
               with Global Leadership and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida.
US university awards Infosys' Narayana Murthy - The Times of IndiaMay 17, 2012 Infosys chief mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida in recognition of his
               entrepreneurial spirit.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - Oversees IndianMay 17, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
US university honors Infosys founder NR Narayana Murthy - The Economic TimesMay 16, 2012 Infosys chief mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida in recognition of his
               entrepreneurial spirit.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - Yahoo! News IndiaMay 16, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Narayana Murthy receives awards from US University - NDTVMay 16, 2012 Infosys Chief Mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida (USF) in recognition
               of his entrepreneurial spirit.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - Thaindian NewsMay 16 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - NY Daily NewsMay 16, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Narayan Murthy receives US university awards - Express BuzzMay 16, 2012 Infosys chief mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida in recognition of his
               entrepreneurial spirit.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - newKerala.comMay 16, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Narayana Murthy receives awards from US University - NDTVMay 16, 2012 Infosys Chief Mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida (USF) in recognition
               of his entrepreneurial spirit.
Narayan Murthy receives awards from US University - Jagran PostMay 16, 2012 Infosys chief mentor Narayana Murthy has been felicitated with the Global Leadership
               and Free Enterprise awards by the University of South Florida in recognition of his
               entrepreneurial spirit.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - News Track IndiaMay 16, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
US varsity honors Narayana Murthy - Apna India NewsMay 16, 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
USF honors Narayana Murthy, hailed as the 'father of outsourcing' - Tampa Bay TimesMay 15, 2012 Hailed as the "father of outsourcing," Narayana Murthy has some parental advice for
               international companies using his technology: Be fair and have a good attitude.
Narayana Murthy gets Florida varsity award - CIOL.comMay 10, 2012 University of South Florida has chosen Narayana Murthy, the founder of Infosys, for
               Global Leadership Award and the College of Business Free Enterprise Award for 2012
When Small Business is Big Business - USF NewsMay 10, 2012 USF's Small Business Center is focused on helping companies grow and succeed in a
               changing global environment.
Business Briefcase - Hernando TodayMay 09, 2012 SBDC at the Greater Hernando County Chamber of Commerce
USF Graduate business project adopted by Habitat Hillsborough - merchantcircle.comMay 09, 2012 When five students from The University of South Florida's Executive MBA program were
               tasked with developing a marketing plan for their Marketing Management course, their
               vision went beyond simply earning an A grade for the project.
Florida SBDCs Celebrate Small Business Success VoltAir: Regional Minority Small Business
                  Champion of the Year - Maddux News WireMay 8, 2012 In celebration of the spirit of small business, the Florida Small Business Development
               Center Network (Florida SBDC Network) is honored to feature VoltAir Consulting Engineers,
               LLC as one of its outstanding client successes whose growth is fostering Florida's
               economy.
Top Honors for International Business Leader - USF NewsMay 8, 2012 N.R. Narayana Murthy to receive Global Leadership and Free Enterprise Awards May
               14.
Hernando business digest - Tampa Bay TimesMay 5, 2012
Is $96B Cool Enough for Facebook? - Ecommerce TimesMay 4, 2012 Facebook announced an estimated price for its long-awaited initial public offering
               Thursday, setting a range of US$28 to $35 per share. The top end of its estimate would
               give the social network a valuation of $96 billion.
International business leader N.R. Narayana Murthy to receive top honors from USF
                  - Maddux News WireMay 3, 2012 International business leader Nagavara Ramarao Narayana Murthy will be at the University
               of South Florida in Tampa May 14 to be awarded two of its highest honors, the Global
               Leadership Award and the College of Business Free Enterprise Award.
U.S. Varsity Honors Narayana Murthy - IndolinkMay 2012 The University of South Florida has honored Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
               with the Global leadership and Free Enterprise Awards for his leadership and contributions
               to the international business world.
Nowell, Diaz Honored in 25 Under 25 Program - GoUSFBulls.comMay 2012 Alexis Nowell and Anthony Diaz are a part of this year's 25 Under 25 program that
               recognizes standout undergraduate students in USF's College of Business.
USF's Singing Lineman Signs with Bucs - WUSFApril 30, 2012 While 253 players had their names called at this year's NFL Draft, their off the
               field stories may not be as interesting as that of an undrafted USF football player
               who signed a free agent contract with his hometown team.
USF grad program helps entrepreneurs - Tampa Bay OnlineApril 26, 2012 The Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of South Florida helps students
               who want to start their own businesses.
Businesses don't have last word on U.S. economy - Tampa Bay TimesApril 26, 2012 Equating an economy to a collection of firms is as wrong as believing that it takes
               only eggs to make an omelet. In addition to firms, an economy requires a government-provided
               infrastructure; the skills of a workforce; the ideas generated in universities and
               medical centers; and a host of other elements.
USF's Top Tier Fulbright Scholars - USF NewsApril 20, 2012 Five students are among the recipients of the most competitive postgraduate scholarships.
First, make no mistakes - Creative LoafingApril 19, 2012 Downtown Tampa's new medical simulation center uses high-tech training to reduce
               the margin of doctor error.
Obama visits Tampa to talk exports, meets USF community members - The OracleApril 16, 2012 President Barack Obama visited the Port of Tampa on Friday to herald the success
               of a trade initiative that created a USF department, delivering a small, private press
               conference in front of shipping containers and industrial cranes.
Obama calls for more trade in visit to Port of Tampa - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 13, 2012 At the Port of Tampa Friday President Barack Obama announced a new federal initiative
               to help small and medium-sized business generate more trade throughout the Western
               Hemisphere.
Obama kicks off trip to Colombia with Tampa stop - ABC Action NewsApril 13, 2012 On the way to a Latin American summit, President Barack Obama told port workers in
               Tampa that his administration was aiming to increase exports for small businesses
               and companies in the United States as a key ingredient of the U.S. economic recovery.
Exporting pays off for small Tampa business - Bay News 9April 13, 2012 Owners of Global Used Truck Sales LLC in Tampa are already seeing the successes of
               selling their goods to Latin America.
Q&A with Eileen Rodriguez of USF's Small Business Development Center on President
                     Obama's Visit - WUSF NewsApril 13, 2012 One of the people invited to President Obama's speech at the Port of Tampa is Eileen
               Rodriguez, director for the Small Business Development Center at the University of
               South Florida.
Presidential Visit on Trade - USF NewsApril 13, 2012 The University of South Florida was represented at Friday's visit to the Port of
               Tampa by President Obama, who made a quick stop here before heading to Colombia for
               a summit.
Fact Sheet: Small Business Network of the Americas - whitehouse.govApril 13, 2012 President Obama has noted that "small businesses are the backbone of our economy
               and the cornerstones of our Nation's promise." The same is true throughout the Western
               Hemisphere, where the small business sector plays a critical role in job creation
               and broad-based economic growth.
Do cost-benefit analysis before deciding on arena - Milwaukee-Wisconsin Journal SentinelApril 9, 2012 The Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce has issued an "economic impact"
               study showing that the Bradley Center - among the oldest venue in the National Basketball
               Association - generates millions of dollars of economic activity for Milwaukee, most
               of it due to the Bucks franchise.
Who Pays for Contraceptives Under the Affordable Care Act? - America, The National Catholic WeeklyApril 9, 2012 The U.S. bishops assert a conscientious objection to this mandate. Birth control
               runs counter to their teachings, and so they oppose having to "buy" health insurance
               that includes it.
Fintech sponsors USF business plan competition - Tampa Bay Business JournalApril 5, 2012 University of South Florida students who aspire to be entrepreneurs may have an opportunity
               to realize their vision by participating in a business plan competition in May.
Recalculations suggest deeper pension pain for Sarasota - Herald-TribuneApril 4, 2012 New projections show the city's pension woes could be worse than previously thought,
               a factor intensifying bad blood between belt-tightening officials and city employees
               hanging onto dreams for retirement.
Exploring USF's Bunker - The Digital BullpenApril 3, 2012 The College of Business building is arguably the strangest, most complex floor plan
               on campus. It is one of the most unusual environments, and a place where many students
               spend a great deal of their time. Just walking through the hallways feels as though
               the building is itching to tell a story.
Nine Florida SBDC Network Clients & Nominees Selected as 2012 SBA Small Business Week
                  Award Recipients - Maddux News WireMarch 28, 2012 The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) annually celebrates the spirit of business
               leaders and champions for their dedication, achievements and contributions to the
               economic prosperity of our nation.
One minute elevator ride to success - The Digital BullpenMarch 26, 2012 Corporate Mentor Program Coordinator J.R. Haworth has been a judge for the College
               of Business' elevator competition for the past two years and hosted it last year.
College of Business' 4th annual elevator competition March 27 - The Digital BullpenMarch 26, 2012 "It says something about you," Haworth said. "Because out of 6,000 students we normally
               have 75 to 100 that compete. And so right there, it shows you have the guts to do
               it."
A 'thank you' to 20 people who made Tampa Bay a better business place - Tampa Bay
                  TimesMarch 25, 2012 Folks don't always get the acknowledgment they deserve for their everyday acts of
               generosity. So indulge me while I say thanks to 20 people whose contributions, some
               big and in plain sight and some more subtle, helped make Tampa Bay a better place
               to live and work.
Business Briefcase - Hernando TodayMarch 25, 2012 USF's Small Business Development Center events.
New dean named at USF's College of Business - Bay News 9March 23, 2012 The University of South Florida named Dr. Moez Limayem as its new Dean for the College
               of Business.
College of Business announces new dean - The OracleMarch 21, 2012 After an eight-month search, the more than 5,100 students and 335 faculty members
               in the College of Business now have a new dean — Moez Limayem.
Business Briefcase - Hernando TodayMarch 21, 2012 USF's Small Business Development Center events.
New USF dean wants closer ties to local businesses - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 21, 2012 The University of South Florida's new business school dean said he plans to build
               closer ties to the region's private businesses.
New USF dean to seek closer ties with business - Tampa Bay OnlineMarch 20, 2012 The University of South Florida introduced Moez Limayem as its new business school
               dean at a ceremony Tuesday.
USF names Moez Limayem new dean of business school - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 20, 2012 An associate dean from the University of Arkansas Sam M. Walton School of Business
               has been named the new dean of the College of Business at the University of South
               Florida.
New USF College of Business Dean Has Varied Pedigree - WUSFMarch 20, 2012 After an eight month world-wide search, the USF College of Business has found its
               new dean - Dr. Moez Limayen.
New business dean to be named at USF Tampa - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 20, 2012 The University of South Florida has picked an associate dean at the University of
               Arkansas Sam M. Walton College of Business as its new dean of the USF College of Business
               in Tampa.
USF announces new dean - Gulf Coast Business ReviewMarch 20, 2012 The University of South Florida recently named Moez Limayem as the dean of the school's
               College of Business.
New Dean Selected to Lead College of BusinessMarch 19, 2012 Moez Limayem has been tapped as the next dean of the College of Business at the University
               of South Florida.
USF picks Arkansas prof Limayem as business dean - Tampa Bay OnlineMarch 19, 2012 The University of South Florida introduced Moez Limayem as its new business school
               dean at a ceremony Tuesday.
From Classroom to Real Financial World - Fudan Business KnowledgeMarch 19, 2012 'Stop thinking like a student' and 'start thinking like a fund manager', students
               are imparted investment experience within a special SMIF program at USF.
Bus trip to Austin bolsters startup culture in Tampa Bay - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 18, 2012 Thirty people recently piled on to "StartupBus Florida" in Tampa amid a send-off
               by local media and Mayor Bob Buckhorn.
USF center in Brooksville has help for small businesses - Tampa Bay TimesMarch 18, 2012 "Business just isn't my forte," said Ellis, a family practice physician who specializes
               in holistic medicine. "I had an idea of what I wanted to do, but I didn't know what
               I needed to do to get it started."
Florida MBA Standouts - Florida TrendMarch 16, 2012 MBA programs are broadening their reach in an effort to meet student and marketplace
               demands.
Startup Florida: Riding The Innovation Highway, Tampa Bay - 83 Degrees MediaMarch 14, 2012 Brain-drained and wandering the closed-off streets of Austin, blue-badge people immediately
               recognize each other. They spot each other from a distance, and almost instantly light
               up and say: "startupbus!" and then proceed to ask each other the same initial question:
               "Which bus did you in come on?" From there, entrepreneurial trials and tribulations
               are discussed in passing, and promises are made to connect online.
Lightning, USF to team up to create sports MBA - The Suncoast NewsMarch 01, 2012 The Tampa Bay Lightning will help create a master's in business administration in
               sport and entertainment management at the University of South Florida.
15 companies were hiring at the College of Business Corporate Connections event -
                  The Digital BullpenFebruary 24, 2012 On Thursday, in the College of Business Atrium, sat tables with 15 companies waiting
               to talk to graduate students of the college. All of them had full-time positions to
               fill.
College of Business '25 under 25' program applications due March 6 - The Digital BullpenFebruary 23, 2012 The College of Business is taking applications for its 25 under 25 program, which
               recognizes 25 undergraduates under the age of 25 who have demonstrated excellence
               in at least two of the following four areas: scholarship, professional development,
               leadership, and community/campus service.
USF partners with Lightning for sports management program - The OracleFebruary 21, 2012 A new master's program sponsored by the Tampa Bay Lightning and the Lightning Foundation
               is slated to arrive next fall. Yet about 50 students have already inquired about joining
               since it was announced Thursday.
USF partners with Lightning - Gulf Coast Business ReviewFebruary 20, 2012 The University of South Florida will offer a new graduate program with the help of
               a partnership with the Tampa Bay Lightning and the team's charity organization, the
               Lightning Foundation.
Sarasota budget dilemma may lead to cuts - Herald-TribuneFebruary 19, 2012 City employees could face layoffs and higher medical premiums this year as officials
               grip for another deficit caused by the lingering down economy.
New ways to look at city parking - Milwaukee Wisconsin Journal SentinelFebruary 18, 2012 It is easier to drive into the city of Milwaukee than it is to find a parking spot
               in the most popular parts of town.
Doubling U.S. Exports Through Tampa Small Businesses - Maddux News WireFebruary 17, 2012 The Small Business Development Center joined Under Secretary Francisco Sanchez, City
               of Tampa and major economic partners to renew commitment to the National Export Initiative's
               (NEI) goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2014.
Lightning, USF team up for sports-based MBA - Tampa Bay OnlineFebruary 17, 2012 Lightning, USF team up for sports-based MBA
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning team up to offer sports management MBA - Tampa Bay TimesFebruary 17, 2012 USF, Tampa Bay Lightning team up to offer sports management MBA
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning Launch MBA Program - USF NewsFebruary 16, 2012 USF, Tampa Bay Lightning launch a sport and entertainment management MBA degree.
Tampa Bay Lightning, University of South Florida partner to prepare students for careers
                     in sport and entertainment management - NHL.comFebruary 16, 2012 A new MBA degree focusing on sports program provides opportunities for students to
               combine rigorous business training with hands-on experiences in the sport and entertainment
               industries.
BHSN- Tampa Bay Lightning, USF partnering for new graduate program - Bay News 9February 16, 2012 USF announced Thursday it's partnering with the Tampa Bay Lightning to prepare students
               for careers in sport and entertainment management.
Status update: Understanding Facebook's IPO - The Digital BullpenFebruary 7, 2012 "If you have new money, you can introduce new applications, new programs," said Erdem
               Ucar, who is also a Ph.D. candidate in the College of Business. "There are good things
               and bad things, but basically they go public because they need to raise funds."
Survey: 700 tech jobs coming to Tampa - My Fox Tampa BayJanuary 31, 2012 In a state where unemployment is running at nearly 10 percent, a survey in the Tampa
               Bay area shows 700 jobs will be available with local technology companies in 2012.
Business Briefcase - Hernando TodayJanuary 25, 2012
Debt numbers are big; the problem is less so - Tampa Bay TimesJanuary 9, 2012 USF's Charles Kroncke pens commentary on governmental debt, saying that while the
               large numbers make debt seem out of control, "basic arithmetic can liberate us from
               silly rhetoric."
Elite USF grad wants to fly jets - Florida TodayJanuary 7, 2012 USF business major Ryan Spellins was named Outstanding Graduate during USF's December
               commencement ceremonies.
Small Business Development Classes Begin Next Week - South Tampa PatchJanuary 7, 2012 USF's Small Business Development Center offers low-cost seminars in marketing, financing,
               sales, and other topics.
Small Business start ups! Are you ready? - WTSP-TV, 10 NewsJanuary 6, 2012 Yanina Rosario, from USF's Small Business Development Center, talks about some of
               the basics when it comes to launching a small business.
Back to top
2011
Retailers shop for your data - My Fox Tampa BayDecember 19, 2011 More than ever, retailers are counting on email addresses and other consumer information
               to boost sales.
Startup culture starts to set down roots in Tampa Bay business community - St. Petersburg
                  TimesDecember 18, 2011 Columnist Bob Trigaux discusses Tampa Bay's "entrepreneurship ecosystem," calling
               USF's Center for Entrepreneurship and USF professor Michael Fountain a big part of
               the ecosystem.
Why is Tim Tebow reaching phenom status? - WTSP-TV, Channel 10December 16, 2011 USF marketing professor Anand Kumar is quoted in a story about the "phenom status"
               football player Tim Tebow may have achieved.
USF football player shows off hidden talent at graduation - WFTS-TV, ABC Action NewsDecember 9, 2011 ABC spotlights USF MBA student and football player Chaz Hine, who served as vocalist
               at commencement exercises.
AAAS and University of South Florida announce 2011 Fellows - Physorg NewsDecember 9, 2011 Four USF faculty have been elected Fellows for AAAS, including business professor
               Alan Hevner.
Alan Hevner | People on the Move - Tampa Bay Business JournalDecember 5, 2011 USF professor Alan Hevner is named a Fellow by the American Association for the Advancement
               of Science.
Engaging Business Students with Real-World Situations - AACSB InternationalDecember 3, 2011 AACSB blogger Sari Wakefield lauds some of her "real-life experiences" as a USF student.
Powerful finale for powerful performer - Tampa Bay OnlineDecember 1, 2011 The "Most Remarkable" business student in the 25 Under 25 program, USF MBA student
               Chaz Hine is a powerful student-athlete.
Pursued by bad luck - The HinduDecember 1, 2011 In a light-hearted column, USF graduate student Karthik Chandrasekaran talks recalls
               the obstacles he had to overcome in his quest to gain admission to grad school.
USF Business Professor Named AAAS Fellow - Maddux Report News WireDecember 1, 2011 USF's Alan Hevner has been elected a Fellow by the American Association for the Advancement
               of Science.
USF Professor Recognized - TBTF NewsDecember 1, 2011 USF business scholar Alan Hevner is recognized for his research in database systems
               and computer science.
Educating for the global economy - CSCMP's Supply Chain QuarterlyDecember 2011 USF marketing professor Jim Stock discusses changes in the supply chain industry
               in a feature story that recognizes his "long career as a teacher, author, editor,
               and mentor of future supply chain professionals."
Business: Data Miners - USF MagazineDecember 2011 Research by ISDS faculty members Balaji Padmanabhan and Alan Hevner is spotlighted
               in a story about business intelligence.
Business: Supply Chain Expert - USF MagazineDecember 2011 USF marketing professor Jim Stock is lauded for his expertise in supply chains and
               his research contributions to the industry.
USF Prof. Named AAAS Fellow - USF NewsNovember 28, 2011 Business scholar Alan Hevner is recognized for his varied research in areas like
               database systems and computer science.
USF Prof. Named AAAS FellowNovember 28, 2011 Business scholar Alan Hevner is recognized for his varied research in areas like
               database systems and computer science.
Cyber Monday to become Cyber Friday? - WTSP-TV, 10 NewsNovember 28, 2011 USF marketing professor Adam Craig discusses "Cyber Monday" and consumer behavior.
FAF Appoints 13 to FASAC, 5 to GASAC - Accounting TodayNovember 18, 2011 Jacqueline Reck, from the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, is a newly appointed
               member of the Governmental Accounting Standards Council, nominated to the post by
               the American Accounting Association.
Professor appointed to Governmental Accounting Standards Council - MarketWatch/The
                  Wall Street JournalNovember 18, 2011 USF professor Jacqueline Reck has been appointed to the Governmental Accounting Standards
               Council by the Financial Accounting Foundation.
Financial Accounting Foundation Appoints Five New Members to the Governmental Accounting
                     Standards Advisory Council - Financial Accounting FoundationNovember 18, 2011 USF's Jacqueline Reck was appointed to the Governmental Accounting Standards Advisory
               Council.
USF graduate business students take the silver - The Sacramento BeeNovember 16, 2011 USF graduate business students take second place in CA Technologies International
               Case Competition.
USF students take 2nd place in international case competition - Creative Tampa BayNovember 16, 2011 USF graduate business students take second place in CA Technologies International
               Case Competition.
CA Technologies Announces Winners of Third Annual International Case Competition -
                  iStock AnalystNovember 16, 2011 USF graduate business students take second place in CA Technologies International
               Case Competition.
USF business students take second in case competition - Investor's Business DailyNovember 16, 2011 USF graduate business students take second place in CA Technologies International
               Case Competition.
Dipping twice? Maybe and maybe not - Milwaukee-Wisconsin Journal SentinelNovember 12, 2011 USF College of Business Associate Dean Charles Kroncke discusses the effects of retirees
               "double-dipping" and the harm to taxpayers.
Big opportunities in small business - WTVT-TV, Fox 13November 11, 2011 USF's Sean Lux explains the characteristics of today's entrepreneur.
Demographic jobs boom on the way - St. Petersburg TimesNovember 10, 2011 USF's Murad Antia describes a future jobs boom due to Baby Boomers soon retiring
               and creating more openings.
Study abroad trip encourages GloBull Ambassador - The Digital BullpenNovember 9, 2011 "I just recently came back from a four-week summer program over in England, and I
               had a great time there and I learned so much about myself," Leigh said. "I just feel
               like I want to kind of give back in a way to the people who haven't or to the people
               who are worried, because I was there."
Couples working together sharing lives, livelihoods - The Tampa TribuneNovember 6, 2011 Eileen Rodriguez of the USF Small Business Development Center offers suggestions
               for spouses working and starting new businesses together.
Infrastructure Has Huge Costs - The LedgerNovember 5, 2011 USF College of Business associate dean Charles Kroncke explains the economic costs
               of infrastructure investments.
Mile in Her Shoes - WUSF 89.7 - University BeatNovember 2011 USF Center for Entrepreneurship director Michael Fountain talks about its recent
               honor by the Princeton Review.
Casinos proposed for south Florida - WTVT-TV, Fox 13October 24, 2011 USF's Marvin Karlins comments on a bill regarding Las Vegas-style casinos in Florida,
               saying "you open large casinos, you open up social problems."
Forbes Ranks Tampa No. 6 Best City for Women in Business - WFTS-TV, ABC 28 Action
                  NewsOctober 17, 2011 In an article about Tampa's ranking in Forbes' roster of top cities for female entrepreneurship,
               Eileen Rodriguez, from USF's Small Business Development Center, points out that nearly
               half of the SBDC's clients are firms owned by women.
IRS inability to rein in tax fraud vexes law enforcement - Tampa TribuneOctober 12, 2011 Accounting doctoral student and former IRS investigator Jason Rasso comments in a
               story about the IRS and its "inability to rein in tax fraud."
Business Instincts, Govt. Decisions - The LedgerOctober 10, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke coauthors an opinion column, saying that the "lessons
               one learns in running a company are not directly transferrable to running a government."
When the boss is a bully - WTVT-TV, Fox 13October 5, 2011 Management professor Sally Fuller discusses bullying bosses and abusive behavior
               in the workplace.
Attendance remains low as Tampa Bay Rays make dramatic playoff push - St. Petersburg
                  TimesSeptember 28, 2011 Entrepreneurship professor Sean Lux mentions the region's high unemployment rate
               in an article about attendance levels for area sporting events.
USF Entrepreneurship Program In Top Grad Schools - 83 DegreesSeptember 27, 2011 The MS in Entrepreneurship and Applied Technologies offered at USF's campus in Tampa
               is included on the roster of top graduate programs.
USF Entrepreneurship Program Named Among the Best in the Nation - Creative BuzzSeptember 27, 2011 The University of South Florida's graduate entrepreneurship program is ranked number
               19 in the nation for 2011 by the Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine.
New Program in National Intelligence - WUSF University BeatSeptember 26, 2011 USF's Walter Andrusyszyn discusses envisioned program that will train students for
               careers in the intelligence industry.
FM Swings Tampa Bay / Intelligence Careers - WUSF (Radio Only)September 26, 2011 Walter Andrusyszyn talks about USF's new grant to prepare students for analyst jobs
               in intelligence industry.
South Florida's entrepreneurship program ranks among the top 25 in the US - The ExaminerSeptember 24, 2011 USF's graduate entrepreneurship program in Tampa is listed among the top 25 in the
               nation by the Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine, the only Big East School
               included in the roster.
USF's entrepreneurship program moves up in rankings - St. Petersburg Times GradebookSeptember 23, 2011 USF's Center for Entrepreneurship in Tampa is the only Florida school included in
               Entrepreneur magazine's ranking of top graduate programs.
Finance professors to examine DPS bond deal - Denver Business JournalSeptember 23, 2011 USF's Jack Rader notes that municipal finance is an area ripe for academic study.
Graduate Program Rankings - Entrepreneur MagazineSeptember 20, 2011 The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine include USF's Center for Entrepreneurship
               in the list of top graduate programs in the nation.
USF To Train Students In Intelligence Analysis - 83 Degrees MediaSeptember 20, 2011 A grant from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence paves way for program
               to prepare students for careers in intelligence.
Princeton Review Gives USF Program High MarksSeptember 20, 2011 The USF Entrepreneurship Program is named among the top 25 graduate programs in the
               U.S.
Social Security and Budget Cuts - The Sacramento BeeSeptember 19, 2011 USF professor discusses Social Security and budget cuts.
Decide on Role, Size of Government - The LedgerSeptember 19, 2011 USF business professor pens guest column discussing the "role and size of government."
Social Security and Budget Cuts - The Modesto BeeSeptember 18, 2011 USF's Charles Kroncke discusses Social Security and budget cuts.
New Grant for Intelligence Field - Maddux News WireSeptember 18, 2011 New grant provides funding that will allow USF to prepare students for careers in
               the intelligence field.
USF Receives Government Grant to Offer Intelligence Training - WUSF Radio, 89.7 FMSeptember 16, 2011 USF awarded grant to prepare students for careers in the intelligence field.
MBA Student: Chaz Hine - My Fox Tampa BaySeptember 16, 2011 USF MBA student and football player Chaz Hine is known for excelling on the field,
               in the classroom, and on stage.
Grant for Intelligence Field - The Pasco PressSeptember 15, 2011 Grant paves the way for USF students to learn how to become intelligence analysts.
St. Petersburg TimesSeptember 15, 2011 USF's Jim Parrish, who counsels small businesses, is quoted in article about Tampa's
               weak economic recovery.
WTVT-TV, Fox 13September 14, 2011 USF is awarded $720,000 grant from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
Tampa Bay Business JournalSeptember 14, 2011 USF receives $720,000 grant to prepare students for careers in national and corporate
               intelligence.
Tampa TribuneSeptember 14, 2011 New USF College of Business program will help prepare students for careers as intelligence
               analysts.
MSNBCSeptember 14, 2011 New grant awarded to USF's College of Business will help educate and train students
               for careers in intelligence field.
New Grant Promotes Intelligence Careers - USF NewsSeptember 13, 2011 A $720,000 grant will help provide training to students interested in careers in
               the intelligence community.
Social Security is no Ponzi scheme - St. Petersburg TimesSeptember 9, 2011 In his guest column, "Social Security is no Ponzi scheme," USF's Charles Kroncke
               says the "monstrous lie" about Social Security is that it will not be there for future
               generations.
More M.D's becoming masters of entrepreneurship - Minneapolis PostSeptember 2, 2011 More M.D.s are electing to study business and entrepreneurship programs and choosing
               schools such US to do so.
A Recession of Our Own Choosing - The Lakeland LedgerSeptember 1, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke co-authors an opinion column on America's recession,
               debt, and "spending cuts that will be job killers."
Job creation second to profits, demand for products is key - Orlando SentinelAugust 31, 2011 In a guest column, USF's Charles Kroncke discusses growth, reducing the deficit,
               and some basic economic principles.
Social Security's future - St. Petersburg TimesAugust 28, 2011 USF's Charles Kroncke discusses Social Security and "oft-repeated assertions" about
               the entitlement program.
Save water, grow jobs with smart pricing - Milwaukee-Wisconsin Journal SentinelAugust 27, 2011 USF's Charles Kroncke coauthors an editorial on the economic benefits of saving water.
Interest growing in small business. Is it for you? - WTSP-TV, 10 NewsAugust 22, 2011 USF's Small Business Development Center consultants cite questions that people need
               to answer when starting a small business.
The 20-Something Entrepreneur Market - Business Opportunities WeblogAugust 21, 2011 Entrepreneurship professor Stephen Budd is quoted in an article on the 20-something
               entrepreneur market.
Inside the inflation numbers on Social Security - St. Petersburg TimesAugust 18, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke pens a guest column, "Inside the Inflation Numbers
               on Social Security."
Making the University of South Florida home - St. Petersburg TimesAugust 18, 2011 Students move into USF's Bulls Business Community, a living-learning center for high
               achieving freshman students.
Hillsborough County Home Prices Appear Stable - Gulf Coast Business ReviewAugust 18, 2011 USF business professor Ron Rutherford examines short-sale home prices in Hillsborough
               County.
Hillsborough home prices stable - Gulf Coast Business ReviewAugust 16, 2011 USF real estate professor Ron Rutherford discusses home prices in Hillsborough County.
Teburu Disrupts Restaurant World, Wins USF Business Plan Competition - 83 Degrees MediaAugust 16, 2011 Teburu, an online ordering system for restaurants, wins the USF-Fintech Business
               Plan Competition.
Maddux News WireAugust 15, 2011 Business professor Ron Rutherford says home prices appear stable once "distress"
               sales are excluded.
Credit downgrade could make interest rates higher on loans - WFTS-TV, ABC Action NewsAugust 8, 2011 USF finance professor Dror Parnes comments on Standard & Poor's rating downgrade.
ABC Action NewsAugust 8, 2011 Business professor Dror Parnes calls S&P's move to downgrade U.S. credit rating a
               "brave move" but warns that uncertainty and turmoil will have ripple effect on interest
               rates
WFLA-TV, Newschannel 8August 8, 2011 USF professor Dror Parnes comments on how Standard & Poor's downgrade might affect
               local consumers.
Credit downgrade could make interest rates higher on loans - WFTS-TV, ABC Action NewsAugust 8, 2011 Marketing professor Mimi Stamps is quoted in story about U.S. credit downgrade.
Logical Choice - USF NewsAugust 5, 2011 Business professor Jim Stock is honored for his work in supply chain and logistics
               management.
Budget deal punts on jobs, causes of deficit - St. Petersburg TimesAugust 4, 2011 USF's Charles Kroncke pens an Op-Ed column on debt ceiling agreement deal, calling
               plan "seriously deficient."
Debt ceiling deal will have local impact - WFTS-TV, ABC Action NewsAugust 1, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke predicts layoffs and linked repercussions as a result
               of debt ceiling deal .
Thinking Irrationally - Gulf Coast Business ReviewJuly 1, 2011 Researcher and doctoral student Ali Besharat discusses reasons consumers unconsciously
               lose self-control and over-consume.
Consumers Behave Irrationally When It Comes to Financial Decision Making - Gulf Coast
                  Business ReviewJune 26, 2011 Marketing researcher Ali Besharat receives fellowship to continue studies on irrational
               consumer behavior.
Hernando County business digest for June 25 - Hernando TimesJune 25, 2011 USF's Small Business Development Center partners with Chamber of Commerce to provide
               free consultation services.
Third parties need not be spoilers - St. Petersburg TimesJune 24, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke pens a guest column suggesting that instant runoff
               voting might better reflect voter preference in the U.S.
2011 BusinessWoman of the Year finalists chosen - Tampa Bay Business JournalJune 22, 2011 USF's Eileen Rodriguez, who heads up the Small Business Development Center, is a
               finalist for the Business Woman of the Year awards.
MadduxJune 22, 2011 USF doctoral student examines consumer behavior and receives fellowship to study
               irrational behavior.
Oil subsidies subvert free market functions - St. Petersburg TimesJune 13, 2011 USF's Charles Kroncke discusses oil subsidies, stateside drilling, and national security.
USF exploring partial smoking ban costs - USF OracleJune 13, 2011 Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Director Stephanie Bryant discusses USF's new
               partial smoking ban.
USF's Renaissance Man: Chaz Hine - ESPN College Football BlogJune 9, 2011 ESPN calls USF business student Chaz Hine, an honors student, 25 Under 25 honoree,
               football player, and opera singer, a "renaissance man."
University Beat: 2011 25 Under 25 - WUSF-TVJune 6, 2011 The University Beat spotlights some of "25 Under 25" honorees, a collection of business
               students who excel both inside and outside of the classroom.
25 Under 25 - WUSF RadioJune 2011 Several students from the College of Business 25 Under 25 program discuss how they
               balance academics and extracurricular activities.
Cocoa Beach sunscreen company's outlook bright - Florida TodayMay 29, 2011 USF professor Anand Kumar is quoted in article about Sun Bum Sunscreens, saying the
               firm's decision to call itself a Cocoa Beach company is smart strategy.
The debt ceiling deadline approaches: What are the options? - W88.5FM Community RadioMay 25, 2011 Charles Kroncke, associate dean for the USF College of Business, discusses debt ceiling
               deadline on local radio.
Precariously close to edge of fiscal cliff - St. Petersburg TimesMay 23, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke's opinion column discusses the debt ceiling, federal
               spending, and debt reduction.
Protests Dissipate as Campus wide Smoking Bans Take Hold - The Chronicle of Higher EducationMay 22, 2011 USF's Stephanie Bryant, chair of a task force addressing smoking on campus, talks
               about the group's recommendation for a partial ban.
Bradenton HeraldMay 21, 2011 Maria Yepes, a business analyst with the USF Small Business Development Center, comments
               in a story on lending challenges that small businesses face.
Nose-diving home equity means slower Florida recovery - Tampa TribuneMay 12, 2011 Jim Parrish, a financial advisor at USF's Small Business Development Center, comments
               on home equity loans and organizations coping from the economic fallout.
Late Tax Payments Cost More - The LedgerMay 11, 2011 Polk County commissioners approved a grant agreement between USF and the Small Business
               Development Center.
University Of Delaware's Title IX Sports Cuts: Questions Still Linger - Huffington PostMay 10, 2011 Management professor Kevin Renshler says that cutting men's teams decreases the funding
               disparity between men and women's programs but doesn't automatically add to women's
               programs.
Central Florida NewsApril 26, 2011 USF's Small Business Development Center conducted its second annual business growth
               conference in as part of National Small Business Week.
Small adjustments can fix Social Security - St. Petersburg TimesApril 21, 2011 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke suggests a small adjustment implemented over 50 years
               to resolve Social Security problems.
Bulls Beat: Mitchell worthy gamble for Holtz - Tampa TribuneApril 19, 2011 USF senior offensive lineman and management major Chaz Hine was named the "Most Remarkable"
               in the USF College of Business 25 Under 25 program.
Hine named "Most Remarkable" in COB 25 Under 25 program - TBO Blogs - Bulls ReportApril 19, 2011 Bulls football player and outstanding business student Chaz Hine is named "Most Remarkable"
               in College of Business program.
Hine honored in USF business school's '25 under 25' - St. Petersburg TimesApril 8, 2011 USF football player Chaz Hine was included in the roster of "25 Under 25" students
               at USF, along with fellow business student Tiffany Eveld.
MadduxApril 8, 2011 Fintech CEO Scott Riley was named "Mentor of the Year" by students and alumni of
               the USF Center for Entrepreneurship.
MadduxApril 7, 2011 Richard J. Dobkin was also recently named "Executive in Residence" for the USF College
               of Business.
MadduxApril 4, 2011 Graduate business students from USF took second place during the Association for
               Corporate Growth's case competition.
Business model doesn't work in government - St. Petersburg TimesMarch 28, 2011 An opinion column penned by USF's Charles Kroncke notes that "running government
               like a business" may not work and points out some potential unintended consequences.
USF taps Richard Dobkin as executive in residence - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 23, 2011 Richard Dobkin, former head of Ernst & Young in Tampa, is named an "Executive in
               Residence" for the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy
Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy Names New "Executive in Residence"March 23, 2011 Tampa Bay Business Hall of Fame recipient Richard Dobkin joins the USF Lynn Pippenger
               School of Accountancy as executive in residence.
FOX 13March 22, 2011 First generation students in USF Muma College of Business' Corporate Mentor Program
               begin mentoring 8th grade students at Academy Prep.
WFLA-TV, NewsChannel 8March 21, 2011 Carol Vance, an instructor in the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, comments
               on the IRS system and identity theft during tax season.
Robert Forsythe to step down as USF College of Business dean - Tampa Bay Business JournalMarch 10, 2011 USF College of Business Dean Robert Forsythe to step down after the 2011-2012 academic
               year.
Keep large debt numbers in context - St. Petersburg TimesJanuary 24, 2011 USF College of Business Associate Dean Charles Kroncke discusses the misrepresentations
               of the national debt.
USF study shows political lobbying boosts the bottom line - St. Petersburg TimesJanuary 23, 2011 USF business professor Sean Lux was part of a research study that found that businesses
               that engage in political activity see a boost to their bottom lines.
Summit Gives Students Statewide the Opportunity to Network with Global BusinessesJanuary 21, 2011 Florida Student Summit on Global Business brings students and companies together
               for free, daylong event February 11 involving networking, mentoring, and guest speakers.
FOX 13January 14, 2011 USF College of Business Dean Robert Forsythe comments on the economic effects of
               only buying American-made products.
Back to top
2010
Maddux ReportDecember 12, 2010 USF's Sean Lux finds that political activism improves business performance, boosting
               the bottom line by "roughly 20%."
Political Activism Improves Business PerformanceDecember 8, 2010 Political Activism Improves Business Performance; study shows businesses engaged
               in corporate political activity improve bottom line.
Don't Worry, Social Security is OK - San Angelo Standard-TimesDecember 7, 2010 "No need to worry about social security," says USF's Charles Kroncke.
Recovery bonds are a way out of the tax debate - St. Petersburg TimesNovember, 29, 2010 USF's Charles Kroncke discusses the cost of extending tax cuts for all taxpayers.
The Bottom Line on Accounting ResearchNovember 28, 2010 USF expert conducts accounting research relevant in a post-Enron world.
American ChronicleNovember 26, 2010 Entrepreneurship professor Sean Lux comments on Major League Baseball attendance
               for the Tampa Bay Rays.
Social Security? It'll be fine - St. Petersburg TimesNovember 21, 2010 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke discusses the status of the social security program.
St. Petersburg TimesNovember 18, 2010 Associate Dean Charles Kroncke explains that social security is not necessarily worthy
               of "alarming pejoratives" that often accompany discussions about the program's future.
Background in opera has helped USF Bulls' Chaz Hine prepare to play before large audiences - St.
                  Petersburg TimesNovember 17, 2010 Business management student Chaz Hine is featured in a story about his academics
               success, athletic success, and his "other" passion: performing opera.
Mixing business with politics pays off as ever - International Business TimesNovember 13, 2010 Sean Lux, co-author of 'Mixing Business with Politics: A Meta-Analytic Study of Corporate
               Political Activity,' says companies engaging in corporate political activities are
               making higher profits. The study will be published in the January 2011 edition of
               the Journal of Management.
My Fox Tampa BayNovember 12, 2010 Marketing professor James Stock comments on "Black Friday" shopping and the recession.
Maddux News WireNovember 10, 2010 Area executives can earn a "Green Belt" in Lean Six Sigma through the USF Lean Six
               Sigma Green Belt program.
Florida Health NewsOctober 29, 2010 Business student Ryan Kania visits Guatemala and returns to launch non-profit organization
               to ship surplus medical supplies to impoverished regions.
Tampa TribuneOctober 3, 2010 Entrepreneurship professor Sean Lux studies Major League Baseball attendance for
               the Tampa Bay Rays, concluding that team performance and metro population drive attendance
               far more than the unemployment rate.
USF Assists Hernando Entrepreneurs With New Business Development Center - 83degreesSeptember 21, 2010 The University of South Florida recently opened a branch of its Small Business Development
               Center in the Hernando County Airport Industrial Park.
University of South Florida rejoins top 25 graduate programs in entrepreneurship - St.
                  Petersburg TimesSeptember 21, 2010 USF's Center for Entrepreneurship has reclaimed a top 25 ranking for its graduate
               program by the Princeton Review on the 2010 list featured in Entrepreneur magazine's
               October issue.
By All Accounts, They Are No. 1September 9, 2010 USF's accounting honors organizations snags international award two years in a row;
               maintains 35-year streak for superior ranking.
USF MagazineFall 2010 The Bulls Business Community is profiled in an article about living-learning communities
               and student success.
College of Business Hands Out Nearly $350,000 in Scholarship MoneyAugust 23, 2010 More than 150 students receive scholarship assistance from various donors
USF College of Business Unveils New Honors ProgramAugust 10, 2010 The first of its kind in Florida, USF's new business honors program blends coursework,
               research, and applied learning activities.
College of Business Accounting Organization Named in Top 15 in WorldAugust 9, 2010 Students from USF's Beta Alpha Psi (an honors organization) are recognized as a KPMG
               Gold chapter for the second year in a row.
Real Estate Master's Degree on TapAugust 4, 2010 A new interdisciplinary master's degree program in real estate kicks off this fall.
College of Business Welcomes Distinguished Professor to FacultyAugust 2, 2010 New professor joins USF to spearhead new MS in Real Estate.
Accountancy Students Perform Graduation Flash MobJune 11, 2010 Students from the USF Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy celebrate graduation with
               a "flash mob" performance.
Student-Created Blackberry App Wins PrizeMay 17, 2010 MIS students from USF placed second in national competition to create an app for
               the Blackberry Storm.
Business Plan Competition for Aspiring EntrepreneursApril 7, 2010 Students have opportunity to compete to make business plans reality
Building a BusinessFebruary 1, 2010 USF's Center for Entrepreneurship gives students knowledge to create companies.
Back to top
2009
College of Business Offers Degree in AdvertisingDecember 3, 2009 USF Trustees approve a new business advertising degree; USF now offers two pathways
               to an advertising degree.
Macdill Partners with College of BusinessOctober 21, 2009 MacDill AFB partners with experts from USF's College of Business to streamline operations
               and potentially trigger "lean" transformation.
College of Business Awards $300,000 in ScholarshipsSeptember 9, 2009 About 120 students receive financial aid from donors
Bhattacherjee Named One of the World's Top 25 ResearchersJuly 14, 2009 An avid researcher, professor Anol Bhattacherjee is named top researcher by the Communications
               of the Association for Information Systems journal.
Back to top 
