
Our Campuses


USF is comprised of three extraordinary campuses, each with a one-of-a-kind college
               experience. Explore the opportunities at each campus and find your “best fit!”
Learn more below:

Tampa Campus
St. Petersburg Campus 
Sarasota-Manatee Campus 

TAMPA CAMPUS

The Tampa campus is a global research powerhouse in one of the country’s most desirable
               metropolitan communities. From medicine and the arts to marine science and business,
               students can access a broad range of degree and specialty programs. The Tampa campus
               is USF’s largest campus location, and it serves undergraduate, graduate and doctoral
               students.
Quick Facts:

Campus Size: Large
Location: Tampa, FL - 4202 E Fowler Ave, Tampa, FL 33620
Residence Hall Options: Traditional Style, Suite Style, Apartment Style
Nearby Attractions: Busch Gardens, Adventure Island Water Park, ZooTampa

Exceptional Location
In close proximity to some of the best beaches in the U.S., attractions like theme parks, renowned museums,
               performing arts centers and a booming business corridor, the Tampa campus is an ideal
               college home.
Diverse Student Body
The culturally diverse students at the Tampa campus hail from more than 145 countries
               around the world.
Outstanding Student Life
Our Tampa campus offers more than 600 clubs and organizations, award-winning recreation facilities (including an outdoor pool), an on-campus Publix
               store, our very own beach and frequent campus events.
Academic Options
More than 210 majors and concentrations are available, and high-achieving students enjoy accelerated programs, special housing, and career
               and leadership development through the Judy Genshaft Honors College.
Home Away from Home
Tampa campus students can take advantage of numerous residence hall options, living-learning communities and Greek Life opportunities. You’ll also have access to our many on-campus dining locations, including Starbucks, Chick-fil-A, Panera Bread and more.
Schedule a Tour

ST. PETERSBURG Campus

Our waterfront St. Petersburg campus offers you the opportunity to pursue your degree in an inspiring atmosphere that
               encourages creativity. Nestled along Florida’s Gulf Coast in vibrant downtown St.
               Petersburg, students enjoy the best of Florida living: unparalleled scenic beauty
               within a culturally rich city.
Quick Facts:

Campus Size: Mid-Sized
Location: St. Petersburg, FL - 140 7th Ave S, St. Petersburg, FL 33701
Residence Hall Options: Traditional Style, Suite Style, Apartment Style
Nearby Attractions: Salvador Dali Museum, St. Pete Pier, Downtown St. Petersburg

Downtown, Waterfront Campus
Love the water? Put your feet in the sand between classes or hit the water on kayaks,
               paddleboards and more. Also want to be close to it all? Internship opportunities,
               museums, restaurants and open-air markets and concert venues are all just a short
               walk away. You’ll also be just a quick drive (or SunRunner bus ride) from some of
               the country’s best beaches.
We also bring the St. Petersburg community to campus with our Local Restaurant Row dining option, allowing you to sample different St. Petersburg area restaurants on
               campus each week!
Academic Options
Choose from 120+ majors and concentrations, plus special opportunities in the Judy Genshaft Honors College.
Close-Knit Community
With a low student-to-faculty ratio, professors will take a personal interest in helping
               you achieve your dreams. Enjoy our supportive and inclusive community where you won’t
               be just another face in the crowd.
Career Exploration
The Innovation Scholars Career Exploration Program provides unique job shadowing opportunities for incoming high-achieving first-year
               students at the St. Petersburg campus by partnering them with companies and professionals
               in and around downtown St. Petersburg and within the St. Petersburg Innovation District.
A Green Campus
The St. Petersburg campus is proud of the key role students, staff and faculty play
               as leaders and innovators in green initiatives. We’re recognized nationally as a university
               committed to sustainability.
Schedule a Tour

SARASOTA-MANATEE Campus

Do you prefer a tight-knit community where your professors know you by name? You’ll
               find that hometown feel on the Sarasota-Manatee campus. The campus provides a personalized learning environment that allows you to engage
               in unique hands-on learning experiences through internships, research and service.
Quick Facts:

Campus Size: Small
Location: Sarasota, FL - 8350 N. Tamiami Trail, Sarasota, FL 34243
Residence Hall Options: Coming Soon - First Residence Hall Under Construction
Nearby Attractions: The Ringling Museum, Bayfront Park

Personalized Education 
With the lowest student-to-faculty ratio at USF, your professors know you by name
               and help you achieve your goals.
Academic Options
Choose from 90+ majors and concentrations, plus special opportunities in the Judy Genshaft Honors College.
Hands-On learning
Engage in research, internships and exciting Study Abroad programs to places like
               Italy and France. Our biology students also have the unique opportunity to study at
               the Mote Marine Laboratory on Longboat Key.
On-Campus Activities and Involvement
Explore a variety of clubs and organizations, plus student recreation, such as a fitness
               center, yoga and more.
Growing Campus
The Sarasota-Manatee campus is expanding with a Nursing-STEM building that will house
               science labs and other innovative educational opportunities. The first residence hall on the Sarasota-Manatee campus is also underway, which will house 200 students.
Schedule a Tour

