
Key Donors


                  				About the Mumas
                  			
Les Muma is a noted businessman in the technology field, and Pam Muma is a noted philanthropist
                  and community leader in Tampa Bay. Please read the Mumas' bio for additional information.


                        					The Mumas' Bio
                        				 




                  				About Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton
                  			
Kate Tiedemann and Ellen Cotton are the quintessential donor couple, doing all the
                  right things for all the right reasons in all the right ways. Their bond with Kate
                  Tiedemann College of Business at USF St. Petersburg is long and deep.


                        				Kate Tiedemann & Ellen Cotton's Bio
                        			 




                  				About Lynn Pippenger
                  			
Lynn Pippenger was senior vice president of Raymond James, and she handled numerous
                  special projects for the company. Please read Lynn Pippenger's bio for additional
                  information.


                        				Lynn Pippenger's Bio
                        			 




                  				About the Colliers
                  			
The Collier Family has a long history of philanthropy and success in Florida. Please
                  read the Colliers' bio for additional information.


                        					The Colliers' Bio
                        				 




                  				About the Viniks
                  			
The Vinik Family are the owners of the Tampa Bay Lightning, and philanthropists. Please
                  read the Vinik's bio for additional information.


                        					The Vinik's Bio
                        				 




                  				About Monica Wooden
                  			
Wooden, whose company provides transportation management solutions in the field of
                  supply chain management, is uniquely aware of how the industry operates, what needs
                  to be done to fulfill its potential and what kind of young talent is required to carry
                  it through.


                        					Monica Wooden's Bio
                        				 




                  				About John McKibbon
                  			
In 2013, he made a multi-million-dollar gift to the Muma College of Business’s School
                  of Hospitality and Tourism Management. The gift established the M3 Center for Hospitality
                  Technology on USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus and the McKibbon Endowed Chair.


                        					John McKibbon's Bio
                        				 




                  				About the Bellinis
                  			
Arnold F. “Arnie” Bellini is the co-founder and former CEO of the Tampa software development
                  company ConnectWise. Bellini started the company with his brother David in 1982, before
                  personal computers were on every office desktop.


                        					The Bellini's Bio
                        				 




                  				About Baldwin Risk Partners
                  			
Baldwin Risk Partners is an independent colleague-centric and entrepreneurial-led
                  insurance advisory firm fueled by relationships, powered by people, and exemplified
                  by its colleagues’ ability to deliver tailored insurance and risk management insights
                  and solutions to clients (individuals, families, and corporations).


                        					Baldwin Risk Partners' Bio
                        				 




                  				About James "Jay" Nault
                  			
James “Jay” Nault, ’83 and MBA ’84, knows the power of innovation. With a generous
                  gift of $10 million, he ensures future business leaders continue to receive a world-class
                  education at the USF Nault Center for Entrepreneurship.


                        					James “Jay” Nault's Bio
                        				 


