
Records & Employment Verification
EMPLOYMENT VERIFICATION
New - Streamlined Verification through EmpInfo
In an ongoing effort to provide superior employee services, we have implemented EmpInfo
               as our employment verification provider in Summer of 2023. EmpInfo is an online employment
               verification service used by lenders, apartment managers, and other requesters, who
               need to verify an individual's employment status, and often, their earnings history
               as well. Using external vendors like EmpInfo to provide employment and income verification
               is a common practice – especially for a large employer such as the University of South
               Florida. EmpInfo provides a secure and quick verification experience, and their online
               portal is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For employees:To provide proof of your employment or income, please ask the requester to go to www.empinfo.comFor added security when income verification is required, you will need to provide
               the requester with an authorization code. Generating an authorization code is simple!
               You can either·       Visit www.empinfo.com·       Text CONSENT to 888-800-8190·       or call 888-800-8190
You can also visit www.empinfo.com to print basic verification letters for free. Click here for the Employee How-to Guide. For requesters: Please visit  www.empinfo.comQuick instructions:Click here for a one-page bilingual EmpInfo instruction sheet. Requests for records prior to 1999 may require additional processing time. Please contact hr-records@usf.edu for assistance. Requests for employment verifications or personnel records for USF Health Faculty (Morsani COM, CON, COPH & TCOP) should be sent to OFAA-records@usf.edu.  OFAA will monitor & process USF Health Faculty records requests sent to this email.
               Please allow up to 7 business days for processing. 

 
PUBLIC SERVICE LOAN FORGIVENESS
If you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, you may be eligible
               to receive loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. Learn
               more to see whether you might qualify at StudentAid.gov.
Central Human Resources can assist you with completion of the employer portion (Sections
                  3 and 4) of the Employment Certification for Public Service Loan Forgiveness form.



As of April 2023, you can request that your form be digitally signed, using DocuSign.
                              Please refer to the PSLF Help Tool for instructions on processing your form electronically. 


If you choose the Electronic Signature option, please enter jdecrescenzo@usf.edu as the Employer’s Email Address. 


If you choose the Manual Signature option, send an email to hr-records@usf.edu requesting an employment certification for the PSLF form.



You DO NOT need to provide the form, we have it here and will complete it and send
                  it back to you electronically, the SSN will be omitted for security purposes.

PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS
All university records are public records, including personnel files, and shall be
               made available upon reasonable request under the USF Public Records Policy and the State of Florida Sunshine Law.
Central Human Resources is the custodian of records for employee personnel files.
               Please email public records requests related to personnel files to hr-records@usf.edu.
There may be a charge for printing or duplicating records in response to a request
               and/or labor or any other costs associated with gathering and duplicating the records.
               The University will provide an estimate of the cost required to fulfill a request,
               and may require prepayment of the service charge.

SUBPOENAS
Subpoenas may be submitted to the Office of the General Counsel.

RECORDS RETENTION
All university personnel records are kept in accordance with University policy as required under Florida Statutes.
 
