
Visitor/Daily Permits
PARKMOBILE
This is a smartphone application that facilitates paying for parking via cell phone.
               A few clicks and you're done. Visitors can purchase on their phone using the ParkMobile
               app or online at https://app.parkmobile.io/zone/start. You will need to register for a free account and add your license plate number before
               you can park.
Please note when using the Service:

Ensure that your current license plate is selected.
Enter the parking zone number manually, by scanning the QR Code, or by utilizing the
                  GPS Functionality.
Select the amount of time to park.
Click the Start Parking button to confirm and begin the transaction.
ParkMobile will send an alert 15 minutes before the time expires, so you can choose
                  to extend the period if needed.

ParkMobile FAQs
Click Here to Register
 DAILY VISITOR ONLINE PERMIT – ORDER HERE
Daily parking can be purchased through our parking portal. These permits:

Offer the convenience of purchasing from any internet enabled device with printer
                  capabilities.
Are valid for 1 day only and can be purchased up to 14 days in advance.
Provides access to all "D" designated lots on the Tampa Campus. View Map
Includes a Bull Runner daily bus pass.

 Requesting tax exemption? Tax exempt parking permits must be purchased through one
                  of our offices.
How to purchase your permit online:

Create or log into your existing account. Guest Login
Select Purchase Permit. Follow the instruction screens for purchasing your daily permit.
A hyperlink will be provided if you wish to print the receipt for your records.
This is a virtual permit, so there is no need to print and display the permit in your
                  vehicle.

  Parking Pay Stations
Our pay stations allow you to pay for parking with your smartphone through ParkMobile or by one of the following credit card payments: Visa, MasterCard, or Discover.  Our
               machines are conveniently located throughout campus.View Map
The following payment options are available when paying at a pay station.
1. Timed Space - This parking option provides access to short-term parking in timed spaces.

Enter your license plate number at a pay station and follow the prompts to complete
                  your payment. Your license plate is your permit. There is no need to display your
                  receipt on the dash of your car.
Receipt can be used as a bus pass to access the USF transit system, Bull Runner.
Timed Space access is available for a minimum of 30 minutes to a maximum of 8 hours.
                  You may only park in the designated timed spaces within the lot where access was purchased.
                  Not valid in Daily/Visitor lots or spaces.

2. Daily - This parking option provides parking for the day, in Daily/Visitor lots

Enter your license plate number at a pay station and follow the prompts to complete
                  your payment. Your license plate is your permit. There is no need to display your
                  receipt on the dash of your car.
Receipt can be used as a bus pass to access the USF transit system, Bull Runner, by
                  separating the receipt from the bottom of the permit.
Valid for the entire day in all Daily/Visitor lots. Not valid in Timed Spaces.
Many Daily/Visitor lots are "mixed use;" please do not park in labeled and reserved
                  spaces within a Daily/Visitor lot.

Many Daily/Visitor lots are "mixed use"; please do not park in labeled and reserved
               spaces within a Daily/Visitor lot.
Requesting tax exemption? Tax-exempt parking permits must be purchased through one
                  of our offices. 
DAILY SCRATCH-OFF PERMITS
Daily scratch-off permits can be purchased from the main Parking Services Building (PSB)
               located on USF Plum and USF West Holly Drive or the Campus Information Center (CIC),
               located on USF Leroy Collins Boulevard. These permits:

Offer the convenience of advance purchase and flexibility of use as you choose the
                  date by scratching off the month, day, and year.
Display permit type is a hangtag. Click here for permit display instructions.Provide access to all lots or spaces with the letter designation "D", which matches
                  the letter on the permit. View Map
Many "D" designations are located in "mixed use" lots; please be sure that you are
                  not parking in a labeled or reserved space. All labeled and reserved spaces are restricted
                  for their intended use at all times, 24/7.

  Meter
Limited meter spaces area available throughout the campus for up to two hours. View Map
  Visitor Courtesy Permit
We offer our first time visitors a courtesy day permit. This permit provides access
               to our "Y" lot. (View Map for locations). From there our guest can ride our Bull Runner transit service to their destination.
  Friends of USF
This permit is available to visitors only. Students, faculty, staff, affiliates, and
               vendors do not qualify for this visitor permit. This permit is convenient for visitors
               who come to the Tampa campus on a regular basis.

Valid in any lot designated "D" in the Tampa Campus only. View Map
This is a cost saving option for visitors parking more than 55 times in a year. Restricted
                  to the parking location that matches the letter designation, from 7:00 AM to 5:30
                  PM Monday through Friday.
After 5:30 PM and on weekends, with a valid "D" permit displayed, permit designations
                  are lifted and meters and Pay-by-Spaces do not have to be paid.
All labeled and reserved spaces, including "R" lots, are restricted for their intended
                  use at all times, 24/7.
Available by the academic year or semester.
Display permit type is a repositionable (cling) only. Click here for permit display instructions.
Any registered permit holder who is not in possession of their parking pass may obtain
                  a courtesy permit from PATS; a maximum of three (3) courtesy permits per semester.

