
Severe Weather
View Current Tampa Campus Conditions via WeatherSTEM
VIEW THE USF SEVERE WEATHER GUIDE
Severe Thunderstorm, Lightning & Tornado
Lightning frequently occurs in Florida, especially during common summer thunderstorms.
               Always monitor the weather and take precautions to minimize the potential of being
               affected by lightning and other severe weather.

It is important to remain alert during severe weather activity.
If outside, seek refuge in a nearby building and move to the interior of the building
                  away from doors and windows. Vehicles and modular buildings may not provide good protection.
Avoid seeking shelter under trees, as they may become damaged and fall if struck by
                  lightning.

The National Weather Service may issue severe weather watches or warnings. A watch
               means that conditions are favorable for development, and you should be aware and monitor
               weather information. A warning means that activity has been sighted or detected by
               radar and you should take protective actions. Information on current warnings can
               be found at www.weather.gov.
USF will send out emergency notifications if there is potential for a tornado to affect
               a USF campus. Be sure that you are registered to receive MoBull Messages to receive these notifications.
Extreme Temperatures
Florida experiences a wide variety of temperatures throughout the year. Always take
               into account the weather when planning any outdoor activities. Both extremely hot
               and cold temperatures can have detrimental health effects.
In the summer months, temperatures can often surpass 90 degrees and it is important
               to stay hydrated and use sun protection (sunscreen, hats, sunglasses, protective clothing,
               etc.).
Flooding
Thunderstorms and tropical cyclones may produce heavy rainfall that can cause flooding
               events to occur. Learn what to do before, during, and after a flood to stay safe by
               visiting the National Weather Service Flood Safety page.
Rip Currents
Rip currents are currents of water flowing away from the shore at surf beaches. They
               typically extend from near the shoreline, through the surf zone and past the line
               of breaking waves. When caught in a rip current, you may be moved so far offshore
               that you are unable to get back to the beach because of fear, panic, exhaustion, or
               lack of swimming skills. To learn more about rip currents and safety visit the National Weather Service Rip Current page.
