
Working Beyond COVID-19

Daily Activities, Going out and Small Gatherings: Click here for CDC Guidance 
The USF Official Page for Coronavirus Updates and Resources provides the University's guidance on the following:

Vaccines
COVID-19 Cases, Exposure and Symptom Reporting
Isolation and Quarantine
Testing
International Travel


Guidance on Taking Leave

Employees who are sick should not come to work on campus. An employee who is exhibiting symptoms of illness should not come to work. Employees
               are encouraged to work with their supervisors to determine if a remote work assignment
               is possible. Employees are eligible to use their USF leave benefits (i.e., special, overtime, sick, annual leave and personal holiday) when they are
               sick to remain in a paid status.
A supervisor may require after three (3) full or partial days of absence for medical
               reasons (consecutive or non-consecutive days) in any 30 calendar day period, to provide
               documentation from a health care provider before any additional absence for medical
               reasons will be approved.
If COVID meets the criteria for a serious health condition, FMLA and sick leave pool
               hours may be applied as appropriate.

Leave for Self-Isolation

When an employee tests positive for COVID-19, the supervisor may provide a remote
                     paid working assignment, as applicable. If a remote paid working assignment is not
                     applicable, the supervisor may approve leave in accordance with USF Attendance and
                     Leave policies.



Instructions: Applying for Leave Usage for COVID-19 

1. The employee should submit to their supervisor/departmental leave coordinator supporting
                     documentation which may include a COVID-19 positive test results from a physician/medical
                     facility or documentation from a healthcare provider. Home test results will not be accepted.
2. Departmental leave coordinator/employee will enter leave request in ALT.
3. Departmental leave coordinator will place supporting documentation in the employee’s
                     leave file.



The COVID-19 Administrative Leave program has expired. 

Please note: The COVID-19 Administrative Leave program that was previously available
                           expired May 6, 2022.


Please visit USF's official Coronavirus Information page for the most updated COVID-19 exposure, or symptom reporting and isolation procedures.  
What should I do if I've been exposed to or have a confirmed case of COVID-19?
It remains the case that employees who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 or directed
               to self-isolate should not be on campus.  Such employees should continue to follow
               the directions of their healthcare providers and may use accrued leave, if available. 
Working Remotely
Employees should continue to work remotely if approved. If in the judgment of Universitymanagement duties can be performed remotely while still meeting the University’s mission,
               then the employee should be permitted to do so/continue to do so.

What is the procedure for employees who cannot work remotely, but have challenges
                  in returning to campus?

If in the judgment of University management an employee’s duties cannot be performed
                     remotely while still meeting University’s mission; then the workplace outcome depends
                     on the reason the employee is unable to return to campus, as described in the following
                     sequential order.
i. Disability: If the employee is limited in returning to campus because of a disability or medical
                     condition, then the employee should consult with Division of Human Resources(“DHR”) to review available options for reasonable accommodations under the Americans
                     with Disability Act (“ADA”) or the possibility of leave under the Family Medical Leave
                     Act (“FMLA”), including expanded federal eligibility for leave. The supervisor should
                     not be the primary contact for ADA and FMLA matters, but rather should refer the employee
                     and any healthcare information to DHR.
ii. Health conditions and dependent/elder care: If the employee is limited in returning to campus because of dependent/elder care
                     obligations, then the employee should consult with DHR regarding FMLA leave, including
                     expanded federal eligibility for leave for dependent care. The supervisor should not
                     be the primary contact for FMLA matters, but rather should refer the employee and
                     any dependent/elder care information to Central HR.
iii. General risk profile: If the employee is limited in returning to campus due to the employee’s risk profile
                     based on CDC guidance, then the employee and supervisor should explore options to
                     adjust the work environment to support the employee’s return to on-campus work, such
                     as: flexible work schedules; alternating days in the workplace with days of remote
                     work; hybrid performance of duties with telecommuting and in person work functions
                     (i.e. faculty providing remote lectures with carefully managed in person labs); temporary
                     reassignment; staggered start and end times to limit number of employees arriving
                     or departing at the same time.However, presenting one or more risk factors does not necessarily equate to a disabilityunder the ADA that would be a basis to provide a reasonable accommodation (i.e. being
                     65 is not a disability).
iv. General concerns: If the employee is limited in returning to work due to generalizedconcerns unrelated to the employee’s own health or dependent/elder care circumstances,
                     then regular University leave and assignment policies apply.


Additional Resources for Working Remotely

For more information about flexible work arrangements, visit HR's "Safe Return/Future of Work" site. The Safe Return site provides resources such as flexible work assessments, policies,
               agreements, trainings and more. 
USF provides employees with free access to LinkedIn Learning courses online. Visit
               a curated list of topics dealing with post-COVID well-being and remote work here. 

Life & Personal Help
Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), provided by Magellan Health provides free support and assistance for a variety of concerns. Some of the recent
               resources deal with emotional and financial challenges by offering online webinars,
               tip sheets, articles, discounts and personal assistance finding services. For specific
               COVID-19 tips sheets, click here. 
Access LifeMart's Discount Center through our EAP program at MagellenAscend.com for a variety discounts.  Click here for instructions on navigating to the Discount Center.

Access LifeCare's "We Can Help" program at MagellanAscend.com for personalized assistance in variety of areas.  For example, they can help find
               childcare, pet care and elderly care. Click here for instructions on navigating to the LifeCare resource page. The "We Can Help" program is located under the "Coronavirus Curated Collection" block.
Contacting Human Resources
For general questions, please call 813-974-2970 or email your questions directly to the teams below.
Benefits: benefits@usf.eduNew Hire Paperwork/Orientation: rightstart@usf.eduEmployee Relations: employee-relations@usf.eduClassification and Compensation: classcomp@usf.eduFMLA: fmla@usf.eduData Center: employmentcenter@usf.eduAccommodations/ADA: hr-ada-request@usf.eduLeave and Attendance: leaveadmin@usf.eduBackground/Drug Screens: hr-usfcareershelp@usf.eduRecruitment: hr-usfcareershelp@usf.eduLearning and Talent Development: training@usf.edu                                                          Personnel Records/Employment Verifications: hr-records@usf.edu

Additional Resources 
Faculty Toolkit
The USF Official Page for Coronavirus Updates and Resources provides the University's guidance on the following:

Vaccines
COVID-19 Cases, Exposure and Symptom Reporting
Isolation and Quarantine
Testing
International Travel

Coronavirus Updates & Resources by County:  Hillsborough | Pasco | Pinellas | Manatee
