
Activities and Programs


                  				Marshall Student Center
                  			
Located in the heart of our Tampa campus, the Marshall Student Center is a hub for
                  student life at USF. Here you'll find Student Government, various Student Affairs
                  departments, a gaming lounge, study and meeting space, food, retail and more.


                        					Marshall Student Center
                        				 




                  				New Student Connections
                  			
USF has so much to offer new students so where do you begin? If you’d like some guidance
                  and an inside track to getting connected to campus, visit New Student Connections—we’re
                  here just for you!


                        				New Student Connections
                        			 




                  				Student Government
                  			
With more than 250 employees and volunteers, Student Government is the voice of USF
                  students. Learn about our Executive, Judicial and Legislative branches, our services
                  and initiatives, and how you can get involved.


                        				Student Government
                        			 




                  				Student Involvement
                  			
Immerse yourself in campus traditions by helping to plan Homecoming and USF Week.
                  Join the Campus Activities Board and host free fun events, like Patio Tuesday, Movies
                  on the Lawn, and BullStock. Interact with celebrity guest lecturers as part of the
                  University Lecture Series or coordinate an art exhibit in the Centre Gallery, plus
                  more!


                        					Center for Student Involvement
                        				 




                  				Student Organizations
                  			
With more than 600 student organizations, including Greek, academic, religious, service,
                  special interest, recreation and multicultural organizations, there's something for
                  everyone at USF! Get to know our student organizations.


                        					Student Organizations
                        				 




                  				Leadership and Civic Engagement
                  			
Get involved! The Center for Leadership and Civic Engagement (CLCE) encourages students
                  to learn, serve and lead. Learn about Bulls Service Breaks, Dance Marathon, Stampede
                  of Service, the Emerging Leaders Institute and more.


                        					Leadership and Civic Engagement
                        				 




                  				Multiculturalism
                  			
Explore diversity on our campus by getting involved with programs that will educate
                  and inspire you to become a global citizen.


                        					Multicultural Affairs
                        				 




                  				The Oracle
                  			
USF’s award-winning, student-run newspaper, The Oracle, is a great way to stay informed
                  on campus—and offers you a chance to explore your journalism, photography and business
                  skills.


                        					The Oracle
                        				 




                  				ROTC
                  			
USF is one of only a few universities in the nation with ROTC programs for all three
                  military departments. Learn about our Army, Navy and Air Force Reserve Officer Training
                  Corps programs.


                        					ROTC
                        				 




                  				St. Petersburg & Sarasota-Manatee Campuses
                  			
Are you a student in St. Petersburg or Sarasota-Manatee? Visit your campus website
                  for details on activities and programs available near you!


                        					St. Petersburg Campus Life
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Life
                        				 


