
About Title IX at USF
Click here for the USF Title IX Guide.
USF's commitment to maintaining an inclusive campus environment that is free from
               harassment, discrimination, and violence is a cornerstone of ​​USF’s Pillars of Community​. As USF develops programs, policies, and procedures that foster our vision of a
               community that cherishes justice, accessibility and meaningful participation by all
               of its members, the University align its efforts to comply with various civil rights
               laws that prohibit gender and sex based discrimination.
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination based on sex of employees and students of educational
               institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Sex discrimination is a broad
               category that includes sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating and domestic violence,
               stalking, discrimination based on pregnancy, and discrimination based on sexual orientation/identity.
               Sexual harassment is unwelcomed conduct based on sex determined by a reasonable person
               to be so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a
               person equal access to a school’s educational program or activity. Sexual harassment
               includes unwanted and/or unwelcomed sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and
               other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
The University of South Florida does not tolerate sex discrimination, sexual harassment,
               or sexual violence of any kind. This prohibition and the application of Title IX is
               further explained in the University’s ​Sexual Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy 0-004​. To ensure compliance with Title IX and other federal and state civil rights laws,
               the University has designated​​ Maggie Denney as the University's Title IX Coordinator. She is charged with monitoring compliance with Title IX and ensuring that reports
               of sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence are investigated and
               addressedby the University.
Any student, faculty, or staff member with questions or concerns about the applicable
               University policies or who believes that they have been the victim of sex discrimination,
               sexual harassment, or sexual violence is encouraged to contact the Title IX Coordinator.
“No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation
                  in, bedenied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any educational
                  program or activityreceiving Federal financial assistance.”
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 to the Higher Education Act of 1965
