1 | Page   Course Prefix Number Course 
Title CRN, Section #, Credit Hours 
College Name, Department Name  
COURSE SYLLABUS 
 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Thomas P. Stablein  E-Mail:  tstablein@usf.edu  
Term:  Fall 2023  Dates:  8/21/2023 – 11/9/202 3 
Delivery 
Method:  In-Class Instruction with <50% being 
delivered using some form of technology  Phone:  813-974-1773  
Class 
Location and 
Time:   
BSN 12 0 – Thursday s from 6:30 to 10:15 p.m.  
Office Hours  
& Location : Office:  CIS 2005  
Hours:  Thursdays 5:00 -6:00 p.m. on days we meet in person  AND by 
appointment  
 
         Welcome!  
Congratulations on making it to this point in your academic journey. I am very 
excited to share my experience with you and prepare you to become effective 
participants in project  investments at your current and/or future organizations.  
 
      University Course Description  
The objective of this course is to become familiar with fundamental issues for managing 
project management and to develop an understanding of the overall processes of dealing with competing demands in information technology environments.  
 
     Course  Prerequisite  
ISM 6021  
 
IV.    Required  Text book  and Software  
There are no required textbooks for this course.  Here is a book I recommen d—the lectures 
align to  this book . 
 
Information Technology Project Management , 9th Edition  
By: Kathy Schwalbe, Thomson Course Technology, 2019.   
ISBN -13: 978 -1-337-10135 -6 
 
No software is required  
ISM 6316  
Project Management  
CRN -SEC: 80334 -901 
3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business 
COURSE  SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 8/ 20/2 023 2 | Page         Learning Goals  
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Describe the management processes for project completion  
2. Discuss the impact of project issues on the project management knowledge areas  
3. Identify typical project management classic mistakes to help avoid project failure  
4. Recognize appropriate skill sets for the successful project manager  
5. Explain the imp ortance of stakeholder management and top management support 
6. Explain activity dependencies for project estimation and scheduling  
7. Create a project plan that incorporates the 10 PMBOK knowledge areas  
8. Create a WBS and transform it into a Gantt chart  
9. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of project 
management  
10. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of project management correctly in new situations  
11. Analyze project management issues using appropriate methods  
12. Create and ev aluate project management artifacts  
 
 VI.   Course Objectives  
The general objective of this course is to become familiar with the fundamental issues for managing project s and to develop an understanding of the overall process of dealing with 
competing dema nds in various environments.  
 
VII.   Course Topics  
Include (but not limited to):  
Project charters, project selection, project portfolios, project management standards, Agile, 
Waterfall, SCRUM, Kanban, sprints, user stories, issue management, outsourcing, leadership, meeting facilitation, collaboration in projects, project risk managemen t, change management, 
risk analysis, scheduling, costing, and knowledge management in projects.  
 
VIII.
  Instructor Contact Information and Communication  
If you are looking to get in touch with me, please email me through C anvas.   Please note, if 
you are se nding email through Canvas, attachments do not always come through. Please 
address all emails in a professional manner (Dr. Stablein … body… sign off with name). I will 
try to return emails with in 1 business day . If you do not hear from me within 24 hours, 
please follow up  with me. I can meet with individuals or groups online, just email for an 
appointment.  
 
IX.    How to Succeed in this  Course  
This course is about time management. Please do not rely only on your Canvas calendar, 
you will miss valuable information to help you with your work. Use the Module s page as 
your guide. If you use it , each week is laid out for you with all the resources you need to 
be successful.  
 
This course requires in -person attendance  when scheduled.  
 
3 | Page   X.      Required Course  Materials  
Besides the  book , all required materials will be provided on Canvas. You may have to 
conduct research for this course  and if you do, all the resources you will need are available 
through the USF Library.  
 
XI.      Grading  Scale  
 
Percent  Grade  Percent  Grade  
98 – 100 A+ 77 – 79 C+ 
93 – 97 A 73 – 76 C 
90 – 92 A- 70 – 72 C- 
87 – 89 B + 67 – 69 D+ 
83 – 86 B 63 – 66 D 
80 – 82 B- 60 – 62 D- 
 
The quality of your work and class participation is a matter left to the course instructor’s 
subjective judgment. The instructor’s decision on your letter grade is FINAL . If there are 
unusual or idiosyncratic circumstances that may prevent you from perform ing well in this 
course, such as chronic or acute illness, sudden death in your family, mental disabilities, and so forth, please inform the instructor at the beginning of the course, or as soon as the circumstances occur. In terms of disabilities, reasonable accommodations will be made for 
students with verifiable disabilities. You must communicate any problem to the instructor 
as soon as possible. I will do everything in my power to tackle the problem fairly and quickly. However, retroactive excuses are n ot acceptable to the instructor. You are not  
allowed to bring up ameliorating circumstances to justify your poor performance at the end of the course (particularly after knowing your course/letter grade).  
 
XII.
     Grade Categories and  Weights  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
     Exercises /Quizzes  70% 
     Research Paper Project  30% 
 
Exercises/Quizzes  
Exercises and/or quizzes will be given throughout the semester .  Some exercises will be 
completed in class.  Exercises and quizzes must be submitted on time for full points . 
 Research Paper Project  
This assignment will be explained in class and may be a group project , depending upon the 
number of students in the class.  
    4 | Page   XIII.   Course  Schedule (Assignments)  
The Modules set up in Canvas detail the schedule for this course.  
Week  Assignments Due  
1 (August 24 )  In-class Exercise  (Bio)  
Exercise ( Project Topic  Selection ) Due August 30th 
2 (August 31 ) Exercise /Quiz 
3 (September 7 ) Project  Discussion – Individual Meetings  
4 (September 14 ) Exercise /Quiz  
5 (September 21 ) Exercise/Quiz  
6 (September 28 ) Exercise/Quiz 
 7 (October 5) Exercise/Quiz  
 8 (October 12 ) Exercise/Quiz  
9 (October 19 ) Exercise/Quiz  
10 (October 26 ) Exercise /Quiz  
 11 (November 2 ) Project Presentations  
Exercise (Presentation Evaluation)  
12 (November 9 ) Project Presentations  
Exercise (Presentation Evaluation ) 
Note: The  schedule above is tentative and may be changed as required.  
 
XIV.   Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade  Dissemination  
You can expect grades to be posted within one week after all students have submitted 
an assignment.  
 
XV.  USF Standard University  Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XVI. Course  Policies:  
Late Work Polic y: 
Late work will be accepted under the following conditions unless there are extenuating 
circumstances. Email the instructor  through Canvas  as soon as possible after 
discovering there are extenuating circumstance s. 
 
Late work received w ithin 1 hour  excluding Exams : no penalty  
1-24 hours  late:     10%  penalty  
25-48 hours  late:     25%  penalty  
After  48 hours     40% penalty  
 5 | Page   Extra Credit Policy : There is no extra credit offered in this class.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : 
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limi t will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is 
appropriate.  
 
XVII. Course Policies: Student  Expectations  
 
Course Hero Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites 
that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downlo ading material for this purpose. 
This does apply specifically to CourseHero.com –  any use of this website (including 
uploading materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF mak e use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end  of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines:  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect 
other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree  with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious b eliefs or other general  differences.  
3. Proofread  and check  spelling.  Doing  this before  sending  an email or posting  a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to  read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to  easily get your idea or answers they are looking  for. 
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t  see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 6 | Page   Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:  
1. Use the subject line effectively by stati ng a meaningful description  of what 
your email or discussion is about.  
2. Keep  your  emails  and postings  related  to the course  content.  You should not 
post anything  personal  on a discussion  board,  unless  it is requested  by the 
instructor.  
3. Any personal  or confidential issues  should  be directly  communicated  to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any 
issues should not be posted  there.  
 
USF Core Syllabus Policies : 
USF has a set of central policies related to Covid -19, student recording class sessions, 
academic integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF. Be sure to review these online at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XVIII. Course Technology & Student  Support  
 
Academic Accommodations:  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at http://www.usf.edu/student- affairs/student -disabilities -services/ . 
 
Academic Support Services:  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success website at - http://www.usf.edu/student- success/  
 
Canvas Technical Support:  
If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the C anvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your C anvas course. You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing 
help@usf.edu.  
 