ISM 6136 .360 F23.80440  Data Mining  (MS Global  BAIS ) 
Instructor  
Kiran Garimella, Ph.D.      
M:      262-909-4192  
E-mail:  kgarimella@usf.edu  
 
Class Information  
Location : Online only  
Time:  10:00  am – 1:00 pm US/EST  (dates in Syllabus)  
Office Hours : By Appt.  
 
Course Description and Objectives  
The past few years have seen an unprecedented explosion in the amount of data collected by businesses 
and have witnessed enabling technologies such as database systems, visualization tools and statistical and 
machine learning algorithms reach industrial st rength. These trends have spawned a new breed of business 
analytics systems that go significantly beyond reporting capabilities, to support predictive modeling and the 
extraction of business insights from data. These trends have also created a new role of “data scientists” who 
are professionals with expertise in the concepts and tools necessary for the skilled use of these systems. 
Understanding the power and limitations of these technologies can provide business managers and 
information systems professionals with  new approaches to support the task of solving hard business 
problems using data -driven approaches. This course will provide an understanding of fundamental data 
science concepts, techniques and business applications.  
 
General Learning Outcomes  
• Demonstrat e understanding of specific data mining methods  
• Describe different ways in which models can be evaluated  
• Use data mining tools to build descriptive and predictive models  
• Analyze a dataset using data analytics methods  
• Describe global business scenarios wher e data and data mining can be applied  
Text and Readings  
There is no textbook. Online links to readings will supplement the custom course content.  
  Course Work & Grading  
Type of Work  Number  Points Each  Points  
Quiz  5 10  50 
Individual Assignment  2 25  50 
Group Project  1 50  50 
   150 
 
Letter Grades (% of total points)  
Minimum Score  Maximum Score  Letter Grade  
95%  100%      A+ 
90%    94%   A 
85%    89%     B+ 
80%    84%   B 
75%    79%     C+ 
70%    74%  C 
60%    69%  D 
   0%   59%  F 
Scores will be rounded  up or down using the usual ro unding rules . To adhere to consistency, academic 
integrity, and fairness to everyone, requests for extra points in order to achieve  the next higher letter grade 
for any reason will not be fulfilled . Exceptions for makeup work are provided only for true, documented 
emergencies or bas ed on guidance from the University due to any extraordinary circumstances.  
Quiz zes 
Quizzes ar e open book , but no consul tation  is allowed. Quiz zes will be  in-class . Each quiz will cover topics  
studie d since the previous quiz but not including any topics on the day of the quiz.  
Assignments  
Assignments are due by 11:59 pm E ST on the due date . Late submission on assignments incurs a 5% 
penalty  per day . 
Group P roject  
Due on Sep 17, 2023, 11:59 pm EST.  Late submission incurs a 5% pena lty per day.  
Extra Credit and Make Up Work  Policy  
There is no extra credit or make -up work available. Quizzes or exams will not be re -opened in case of issues 
with your computer. It is your responsibility to keep your computer and Wi-Fi in full working order. 
Widespread n etwork failures will be dealt with on a case -by-case basis and in accordance with the U niversity  
guidelines.  
 Syllabus  
Session  Dates  Topic  Task  
1 Aug 19 Introduction to Data Mining  First Day of 
Attendance  
2 Aug 20  Supervised Learning  with Decision 
Trees Quiz 1  
3 Aug 26  Supervised Learning with Neural 
Networks  Quiz 2  
Assignment 1  
4 Aug 27 Unsupervised Learning  Quiz 3 
5 Sep 09 Market Basket Analysis  
Recommender Systems  Quiz 4  
Assignment 2  
6 Sep 10  Project  Lab Work  Quiz  5 
Group Project  (due 
Sep 17)  
 
Online Exam Proctoring Policy and Notification  
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing  
requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide 
by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add 
period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to 
have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this 
remote recording device is purchased and controll ed by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library 
and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns 
may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility 
and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and high -speed 
inter net connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam.  To use Honorlock 
students are required to download and install the  Honorlock Google Chrome extension  (Links  to an external  site.) ." 
For additional information please visit the  USF online proctoring student FAQ  (Links  to an external  
site.)  and Honorlock student resources  
 
 Policy Statements  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx . 
 
Course Policy on Acceptable Use of Genera tive AI Tools  
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to foster a dynamic learning environment that encourages technological 
adaptation, innovative thinking, and the ethical use of AI resources in academic endeavors.  
Policy:  
1. Definition of Generative AI Tools: Generative AI tools refer to any artificial intelligence -powered software, 
program or application that can generate co ntent, including but not limited to text, visuals, music, and other 
creative outputs. Examples of these tools include AI text generators, AI content rewriters, AI graphic 
generators, etc. 
2. Permitted Use: The use of generative AI tools is permitted for  learning and p resentations, but not for  the 
individual lab work in  projects  (use in writing industry over view s is permitted ), lab work in assignment s, quizzes , 
and exams . For permitted use , students must responsibly use these tools, adhering to the guidelines outlined 
in this policy.  
3. Student Responsibility: Students are responsible for appropriately using generative AI tools in their work. This 
includes:  
3.1. Citing all AI -generated content used in their submissions.  
3.2. Demonstrating a deep understanding of the subject matter, not solely relying on AI -generated content.  
Cross -reference claims and statements with original sources and providing appropriate cita tions are 
expected.  
3.3. Using AI tools as a supplemental resource (i.e., as an editor), not as the primary means of completing 
assignments.  
3.4. Understanding that generative AI tools, while powerful, are not infallible and can produce misinformation 
or inaccurate results. Students are responsible for the accuracy of the ir submissions and must cross -verify 
the information produced by these tools with reliable sources.  
4. Violation Consequences: Misuse of AI tools, including use of AI that undermines the student learning objectives 
of the course or assignment, failing to cite AI -generated content, relying too heavily on AI for work completion , 
or submitting inaccurate information generated by AI tools, will be subject to academic penalties. 
Consequences may range from a reduction in an  individual assignment grade to larger academic sanc tions per 
USF policy, depending on the severity of the violation  (USF Regula tion 3.027).  
5. Exceptions: If there are specific assignments where the use of AI tools is not appropriate, these will be clearly 
marked in the assignment guidelines. Students must  adhere to these specific instructions.  
6. Questions and Clarifications: If students are unsure whether a tool they wish to use qualifies as a generative 
AI tool, or if they have questions regarding the allowable use of such tools, they should consult wit h the course 
instructor before using it . 
 