Syllabus  Last Updated: 8/1/2023         1   
 
 
 
ISM-6316 :  
Project Management  Approaches  
CRN 87839: ISM 6316, Section # 001, 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
 
Semester: Fall 2023  
Class Meeting Days: Monday s (21 Aug  2023 – 6 Nov  2023)  [Term ends 9 Nov 2023]  
Class Meeting Time: 6:30 p.m. – 10:15 p.m. 
Class Meeting Location: CHE 101A (Chemistry Building)  
Instructor:  W. Randell McNair, D.B.A  
Office Location:  Virtual  
Virtual Office Hours:   by appointment (schedule via USF Teams  calendar)  
Email:  wrmcnair@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Congratulations on making it to this point in your academic journey. I am honored by this 
opportunity to share my lived experiences as you seek to be continuously improving contributors 
to project investments at your current and future organizations. This topic of study is rising in 
importance in professional development across the global business landscape  as a core leadership 
skill for career advancement and effective navigation of uncertainty  with greater clarity .   
 
II. University Course Description 
This graduate level course in project management covers the basic principles, processes, and tools 
of modern project management. Principles and areas of the Project Management Body of 
Knowledge (PMBOK) are covered utilizing information technology and practical business operat ions examples.   
 
III. Course Materials   
 
Required Textbook and Software  
An Introduction to P roject Management , 7th Edition  
By: Kathy Schwalbe, Schwalbe Publishing, 20 21.   
ISBN -13: 9798695713459 
Companion Website: http://intropm.com  
 The Phoenix Project: A Novel about IT, DevOps and Helping your Business Win  
Kim, G., Behr, K., & Spafford, G. (2018). 3rd Ed. IT Revolution Press.   
ISBN: 9780988262508 (N ote: Any recent r evision  or media format for this book will suffice ) 
 Microsoft Project 20 21 – DVD  (Microsoft Azure  > Direct link to  “Education | Software
”) 
The software is available free to registered students in this class via the above link.  
 
 
2  
IV. Course Format  
As this is a n in-person  course format, c lass time will rely heavily on active discussions  related to 
the c ourse content from personal and professional experiences implementing the concepts 
presented in the text and online via Canvas. I will introduce guest speakers and  facilitate a 
collaborative learning  environment . I encourage  teamwork  to he lp you assimilate to the kinds of 
interactions common on project t eams  in modern business  settings .  
 Lecture content will be limited to brief summaries that will be posted online that can be viewed at 
your leisure  as part of the modules that  you should  complete between in -person class sessions. 
Canvas  module content listed in the course schedule is paced to be completed on a weekly basis. 
My intention for the in -person  class time is for you to ask any questions you  have and get 
clarification of the key concepts that are necessary to meet t he learning outcomes below (Section 
VI) and ensure that you are prepared to be a valuable contributing member of a project team.  
 I prefer classroom  learning environments that are interactive and creative rather than dry 
repetition of course content available online.  I understand that each learner has different 
preferred modalities for acquiring new skills and knowledge. My intention is to use diverse 
methods t o stimulate active discussion and curiosity in the art of the possible  from  contin uous 
adaptive improvement in this important business discipline.  
 V. Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course, students will  be able to : 
1. Meaningfully discuss state -of-the-art project management practices  
2. Understand leadership roles and responsibilities in project -based information systems 
development  
3. Prepare and run group discussions  
4. Demonstrate the ability to make professional presentations and reports  related to the 
course topics  
5. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of project management  
6. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of project management correctly in new situations  
7. Analyze project management issues using app ropriate methods  
8. Create and evaluate project management artifacts  
9. Understand the nature of challenges related to the management of software development  
10. Understand the guiding principles and foundations of different information systems’ development methods  
11. Critically assess the opportunities and challenges presented by different practices to plan, manage, lead, evaluate, and learn from systems development projects  
12. Have a command of the core techniques and practices in contemporary project 
management methodologie s 
 
VI. Course Discussion Topic s 
Including, but not limited to:  Project charters, project leadership, project selection, project 
portfolios, project management standards, Agile, Waterfall, S crum , Kanban, sprints, user stories, 
issue management, quality management, scoping, procurement , sourcing strategies , team  
 
3 dynamics , meeting facilitation, collaboration in projects, project risk management, change 
management, knowledge management in projects , tracking tools, stakeholder alignment, 
information management, data management, complex project completion, handover/transition to 
operations . 
 VII. Other Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
Besides the books and software listed above  (section IV), all other required materials will be 
provided as links for download via  Canvas. You will have to conduct research for this course, but 
all the resources you will need are available via Canv as or through the USF Library.  
 
VIII. Supplementary Texts and Materials  
Links to LinkedIn Learning and  other  internet based instructional  content  will be included in 
course modules in Canvas as optional study material for supplementing your learning experience. 
These are not required, but you may find them interesting should you choose to pursue project 
management professional (PMP) certification in the future.  
 I strongly recommend you begin  reading the following text  as soon as possible. This book  has 
inspired countless managers to rethink their approach to how technology projects are managed, resourced, and implemented in the modern  organization. I have read it on Kindle and found it very 
helpful in understanding the challenges modern organizations face navigating competing business objectives and uncertainty.  
 
The Phoenix Project:
 A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win  
By Gene Kim,  Kevin Behr,  George Spafford  
ISBN: 9780988262508 (paperback, printed 2013)  
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course … 
 
Submit Introduction/ Short Bio graphical Sketch  (Bio) : 5%  
This is an important assignment that must be completed by the deadline  (8/25  @ 11:59  p.m.) 
to prevent you from being automatically dropped from this class for non- attendance .  
We will interact quite a bit over the next ~13 weeks. Therefore, let us take time to get to 
know each other a bit better. Post your bio to the appropriate assignment in Module 0 of our course’s Canvas site. Submission of this assignment will serve as documentation of first day attendance. Bios must be  in paragraph form and not exceed 2 paragraphs. 
They must also be within 125 and 200 words.  
 Download  Microsoft Projec t Professional 2021  and submit GANTT Chart Assignment : 5% 
We will use Microsoft Project for some of the exercises in this course.  Microsoft Project is free to enrolled students if you have a Windows -enabled computer.  If you do not 
have access to a Windows -enabled computer, you either must  acquire  a Microsoft  
Windows -based operating system software for your computer or purchase Microsoft 
Project  Professional 2021 for use on the device you are using for access to instructional 
materials . The GANTT Chart assignment will be detailed in the assignments section in 
Canvas and will be discussed in the 2
nd class session  (8/28). It is not due  until  9/23, 
however  you should begin  working  on it as soon as possible to  ensure that you don’t 
have any technical issues that might prevent you from completing it on time.  
  
 
4 Complete Module  Quizzes/ Discussion Posts/ Exercises:  40%  
Exercises and quizzes will be given in the modules throughout the semester.  Reading the 
assigned texts and completing the modules is virtually a guarantee of passing the 
quizzes. Exercises and quizzes reinforce your learning experience and ensure that you 
will achieve the desired learning outcomes.  That is why these assignments co unt most 
toward your final grade. Watch for recommended deadlines indicated on the course 
schedule and in Canvas  as these  reminders  help keep you on pace with the discussion 
topics in the in -person sessions .  
 
Contribute to Group Projects  30% (15% each)  
There are two group projects that will be assigned this  term, and they relate specifically 
to the two major types of project management approaches (Waterfall and Agile). 
Research for these projects can be conducted using the USF library and instructional 
resources referenced in the group project assignments in  Canvas.  It is important to 
contribute collaboratively to your group project in order to ensure you get the most out 
the team learning experience. Watch for  assignment  deadlines to submit feedback and 
present written, live, audio, and video status reports  to the rest of the class via the 
associated Canvas Discussion Forum and in -person during specific class sessions as 
indicated on the course schedule (section XV).  
 
Actively Participate in classroom  activities 20% 
This grade will be based  on your prepar ation  for each class by completing the reading 
assignments  beforehand and actively participating in discussions  and class session 
activities . The intention here is to demonstrate your understanding and general 
retention of the concepts, not rote memo rization of formulas or term definitions. 
Tutorial support is available via appointment throughout the semester if you  are 
struggling with any of the concepts presented.  
 Note that m any of the processes and tools used throughout the project management 
process are recycled  at each project stage and build upon  other concepts as they are 
presented . Thus,  ongoing review of the learning materials (quizzes,  trivia contests,  
exercises, reading assignments)  and applying them to their  appropriate  context is key to 
success in the course.  
 
X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to health crisis  or weather . Should the university trans ition to remote instruction , the instructor will conduct 
class sessions via live, synchronous sessions using Microsoft Teams . The links will be available in a 
special Canvas section  that will be published in the event of a shift to remote learning . Many of 
the activities and assignments  can be done remotely via Canvas and Teams collaboration. Based 
on the circumstances, Dr. McNair will provide a mod ified course schedule as an update to the 
syllabus to reflect any adjustments required by a need to pivot to online  learning , if necessary.  
 
XI. Communication  
We will communicate via the Canvas  inbox  (which is automatically forwarded as a notification to 
your USF email) . Please use th e Canvas  forum for course related communications so that we can 
stay aligned throughout the semester. I (Dr. McNair) will post notices via Canvas email and 
discussion board announcement posts as needed.  If you need to reach me for office hours, please  
 
5 make a n appointment via Microsoft Teams . I will demonstrate how to do that in the 1st class 
session. Class  announcements will be posted to Canvas as well alerted via links in your Canvas 
email inbox . I am available Monday through Thursday  afternoon s most weeks unless notice is 
given otherwise. My calendar of availability will be posted to Canvas, I will highlight times that I 
cannot be reached directly. Please do not call via Teams after normal working hours or on 
Weekends  unless we have made prior arrangements to do so. If I miss your call, it will go to  my 
voicemail,  and I commit to respond back to you within 24-hours on weekdays.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Percent  Grade   Percent  Grade  
98 - 100 A+  74-76 C 
94 - 97 A  70-73 C- 
90-93 A-  67-69 D+ 
87-89 B +  64-66 D 
84-86 B  60-63 D- 
80-83 B-  <59 F 
77-79 C+    
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
Introduction/Bio  5% 
GANTT Chart Assignment  5% 
Weekly Quizzes  / Exercises   40% 
Group  Project  1 Assignments  15% 
Group Project 2  Assignments  15% 
Class Participation  20% 
 
XIV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
You can expect grades to be posted within one week after the due date of each assignment— if 
assignments are submitted on time.  
 
XV. Course Schedule* 
Date  Assignments/ Class  preparation  Topics /Discussion Themes  
8/21 1st class  session ;  
no assignment  due before class  • Ice Breakers  
• Team Building  
• Introductions  
• Syllabus Review / Policies  
• Course Objectives  
• First day Attendance (Assignment 1)  
• General Expectations  
• Canvas LMS Orientation  
• Project Management as a Leadership 
Discipline  
• Microsoft Project assignment overview    
 
6 Date  Assignments/ Class  preparation  • Topics /Discussion Themes  
8/21-27 Complete Module 0 in Canvas;  
Review Schwalbe Text ( Preface ) 
Mandatory Assignment 1:  Student Biography –   
Due Friday,  8/25 11:59 p.m.  • Overview of Schwalbe text  
• Supplementary material 
(Videos/LinkedIn Learning)   
• Introduction to Project, Program, and 
Portfolio Management  
8/28 2nd class session; 
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 1 (pp. 1- 33) 
 • Q&A  – Project Trivia Contest #1   
• Project 1 expectations and rubric 
overview  
• Creating a Project and Gantt Chart 
Assignment – Instructions Review  
8/28-9/3  Complete Module 1 in Canvas;  
Module 1 Quiz  
due Saturday, 9/2 11:59 p.m.  
MS Project Download Assignment  
by Saturday, 9/2 11:59 p.m.  • Agile Mindset  
• Project Management in Practice   
• Project Management Software  
• Differences between Predictive Agile, 
and Hybrid Project Management  
9/4-10 “Labor Day ” Wee k 
Reading Assignment:  
The Phoenix Project (TPP)  
Submit initial TPP Reflection  #1 , #2, & #3  
entries to discussion board online:  
 by Satur day, 9/9 11:59 p.m.   
 
NOTE: Due to L abor Day Holiday,  
there will be  NO Class  Session  on 
Monday  9/4 
9/11 3rd class sessio n; 
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 2 (pp. 42 -71) and 
Schwalbe Ch. 3 (pp. 77 -116) • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #2  
• Waterfall projects  Lessons Learned  
• The Phoenix Projec t: Case Discussion  
• Project 1 Planning Brainstorming 
9/11- 17 Complete Module 2  & 3 in Canvas;  
Module 2  & 3 Quiz  
Due Saturday,  9/16 11:59 p.m.  
Post  in class to Team Discussion Forum in 
Canvas:  "Waterfall" (Project  1) 
due Monday , 9/11 11:59 p.m .  
Group Formation Assignment  
due Saturday, 9/16 11:59 p.m . • Strategic Planning  
• Business Alignment (agile vs. 
traditional outcomes)  
• Development Approaches  
• Project/Product  Life Cycles  
• Management Commitment  
• Standards / PMO   
• Pre-initiating and Initiating Projects  
• Stakeholder Alignment  
• Business Case & SWOT Analysis  
• Release Management  
9/18 4th class session;  
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 4 (pp. 121 -156) • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #3  
• Project Kick Off Meeting Demo  
• Project Charter  Demo  
• Project Roles & Responsibilities  
• Team Time  
9/18-24 Complete Module 4 in Canvas;  
Module 4 Quiz and 
Complete TPP Reflection #1, #2 & #3  responses  
and Gantt Chart Project  
Due by  Saturday, 9/23 11:59 p.m.  • Project Planning  
• Project Integration  
• Scope Management  
• Requirements Management  
• Work Breakdown Structure /Dictionary  
• Agile Planning, Stories, Features, Epics  
  
 
7 Date  Assignments/ Class  preparation  Topics /Discussion Themes  
9/25 5th class session;  
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 5 (pp. 162 -201)  • Project 1 status update group report  
• Intro to Scrum Methodology  
• Sample Agile Projects  
• Project Information Management Case  
• WBS  vs. Story Card  Demo  
• Team Time  
9/25-
10/1 Complete Module 5 in Canvas;  
Module 5 Quiz and 
Post to Team Discussion Forum in Canvas: 
Group Project posting/response activity  
Due by  Saturday, 9/30 11:59 p.m.  • Project Schedule Management  
• Critical Path Analysis  
• Project Trade -offs 
• Project Cost management  
• Kanban / Tracking Tools  
• Project Estimating   
• Project Milestones / Activities  
10/2 6th class session ; 
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 6 (pp. 209 -262) 
Download and read the Scrum Guide . • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #5  
• Group Project 1 Presentation s 
10/2-8 Complete  Module 6 in Canvas;   
Module 6 Quiz and 
Complete Group Project 1 and submit  
Due by Saturday, 10/7 11:59 p.m.  
 • Project Quality Planning  
• Resource Management  
• Project Communications  
• Stakeholder Management  
• Risk Management  
• Procurement Management  
• Change Management  Models  
• Definition of Done  
• Agile & Hybrid Proje ct Planning  
10/9 7th class session;  
Reading Assignment s:  
Schwalbe Ch. 7 (pp. 270 -322)   
Review Scrum Guide  
 • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #6  
• Assign Final Agile Project Roles  
• Team Building Demo  
• Agile Sprint Planning Session Demo  
 
10/9-15 Complete Module 7 in Canvas;  
Module 7 Quiz and 
Post to Team Discussion Forum in Canvas: 
Group Agile Project post + response activity  
Due by Saturday, 10/14 11:59 p.m.  
 
 • Execution Management   
• Project Quality  Tracking  
• Project Resource Management  
• Training and Development  
• Recognition / Team Building  
• Execution Risk Management  
• Procurement Management  
• Project Execution (processes / outputs)  
• Deliverables Tracking Progress  
• Agile & Hybrid Project Integration  
• Conflict Management  
10/16 8th class session;  
Reading Assignment :  
Schwalbe Ch. 8 (pp. 330 -365)  • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #7  
• Agile Project Sprint 1 Kick Off  
• Agile Project Group  (Story Cards) 
• Agile Project Product Planning  
• Agile Sprint Backlog  Planning   
 
8 Date  Assignments/ Class  preparation  Topics /Discussion Themes  
10/16 -22 Complete Module 8 in Canvas;  
Module 8 Quiz  
Due by Saturday, 10/ 21 11:59 p.m.  
 • Monitoring and Controlling Projects  
• Forecasting  
• Performance Reports  
• Contractor Management  
• Monitoring Agile & Hybrid Projects  
• Burn down / Burn Up charts  
• Velocity Tracking  
 
10/23 9th class session;  
Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 9 (pp. 372 -389) • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #8  
• Sample Agile & Hybrid Execution 
Approaches  
• Real life challenges with Agile & Scrum 
in Execution   
• Hybrid Logistics case example: 
Managing Requirements & Uncertainty  
• Team Time  
 
10/23-29 Complete Module 9 in Canvas;  
Submit course evaluations:  
Post to Team Discussion Forum in Canvas: 
Group Agile Project post + response activity  
Due by Sa turday, 10/ 28 11:59 p.m.  •  Customer Acceptance  
• Transition to Operations  
• Knowledge Management  
• Close out of Hybrid or Agile Projects  
• Operations Ownership/Engagement  
 
10/30  
10th class session;  
Optional Reading Assignment:  
Schwalbe Ch. 10 (pp. 394- 414)  • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest #9  
• Group Project Sprint 1 Retrospective  
• Sprint 2 Planning /Backlog Refinement  
• Project Leadership in Execution  
• Agile Project Demo Day  Planning  
• Team Time  
 
10/30 -
11/5 Submit Course Evaluations  
Due by Fri day, 11/3 11:59 p.m.  
Draft Group Agile Project Submission  
Due by Fri day, 11/3 11:59 p.m.  
 • PMP Certification  Proc ess 
• PMBOK Revs 6 vs.  7 comparison  
• Agile/Lean Sigma  Certifications  
 
11/6 11th class session  
 • Q&A – Project Trivia Contest # 10 
• Group Project Sprint 2 Retrospective  
• Project Close out/Handover Lessons  
• Final Agile Group Project Presentation s 
• Course Reflections  
 
11/6 - 9 Final Group Agile Project Submission :  
Due by 11/ 8 11:59 p.m.  
All other ( late) assignment s/re-submissions  
Due by 11/ 9 11:59 p.m.  
 NOTE: Make every effort to turn i n 
your individual contribution early so 
that your group meets the deadline.  
* Th is Schedule is subject to revision  
  
 
9 XVI. USF Core  Syllabus Policies  
Policies about COVID -19 protocols, disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, 
academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food  and housing insecurity, intellectual 
freedom and viewpoint diversity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies 
that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at:  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XVII. Course Policies: Grades  Extra Credit Policy : 
If you  are concerned that  your group final project presentation grade may not receive the 
maximum number of points  desired , you may opt to pre-perform additional work assignments 
to ensure your individual grade for the group assignment  reaches the maximum  points 
allowed (100). This must be preapproved with point values negotiated with the instructor and 
may include but is not limited to posting a writ ten assignment to the class discussion forum 
such as submitting a chapter summary, provi ding a detailed work break down structure for a 
proposed project, writing example user stories/features/Epics in Agile format, creating a project tool template. Each  extra credit  assignment to a general discussion forum is intended 
to benefit others in the  class as supplementary learning/review material. All extra credit is due  
before  the last day of class  and must  be posted no later than 11/5 at 11:59 p.m.  
 
Late Work Policy :  
Group Project assignments  turned in late without prior authorization will be assessed a 
penalty: -3 points  if it is one day late, or -9 points  for 2 -7 days late. Group Project  assignments  
will not be accepted if overdue by more than seven days.  Please contact Dr. McNair via Canvas 
email prior to  the due date of an assignment if there is any chance you will miss a 
presentation or project submission deadline.  All past -due individual  module, discussion posts , 
quiz, and exercise assignments in Canvas must be posted no later than 11 /9 at 11:59 p.m.  
unless  otherwise noted in the course schedule. N o exceptions  will be granted  without 
confirming  prior arrangements with the instructor for an incomplete “I” as outlined b elow . 
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
The current university policy concernin g incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when 
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances 
beyond their contro l. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade 
Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can b e 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor if it does not exceed one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Attendance Policy:  
Students are expected to attend classes  per the schedule listed in section XV or as modified via 
an announcement in Canvas unless prior arrangements have been made . Dr. McNair will 
accommodate excused absences and coordinate a mitigation plan with students ahead of time 
(when possible) and will allow students a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work  
 
10 depending on the nature of the absence and circumstance s regarding timing relative to group or 
individual assignments .  
 
There is a lot of material to cover, so please make every effort to attend and actively participate 
in class sessions to ensure the learning experience and outcomes are favorable for everyone concerned . Dr. McNair will discuss the course schedule on the first day of class and any known 
anticipated conflicts  raised  affecting multiple individuals , particularly  those affecting group 
projects will be discussed and should be mitigated as so on as p ossible  and the syllabus will be 
updated accordingly  if necessary .  
 Group Work Policy : 
As this is a project management course, everyone must take part in the two assigned group 
project s. All members of a group will receive the same score  for the presentation portion; that 
is, the project  presentation  is assessed by the instructor , and everyone receives this score. See 
the Extra Credit P olicy  above  for how to improve your group project score .  
 You will get an opportunity to get  peer and instructor  feedback prior to final submission of 
each project, so you and your project team will have every opportunity to get full credit on the 
two group assignments.  Also, everyone must take part in a group presentation  to the class for 
each p roject  assignment . Once formed, groups cannot be altered or switched, except for 
reasons of extended hospitalization.  
 XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media   
 
Canvas :  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu
. 
 
Recordings :  
In this class, software may  be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a student in 
this class, your participation in live class discussions will potentially  be recorded. These 
recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those w ho 
cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be captured. Pleas e discuss this option with 
your instructor. This option will only be necessary in cases where the in -person  sessions must  
be switched to  remote or  hybrid format due to extenuating circumstances (such as hurricane 
or COVID19 protocols).  
 
WhatsApp, Slack, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication:  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to 
communicate with fel low students, it is important to remember that academic integrity 
policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is 
prohibited by the official regulation
, as is receiving unauthorized information about an 
examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.   
 
11  
Laptop/Phone/Assistive Technology  Usage:  
You are encourage d to use whatever assistive technol ogies  (such as laptops, recording devices, 
mobile phones, etc.) to  help you retain and process the information presented during the in -
person class sessions.  Students are allowed to use devices for recording class sessions for personal 
use only , not to be published online or elsewhere . Students must still adhere to classroom 
behavioral expectations while recording.  
 If you are using social media for a “backchannel” conversation,  please ensure that your use of 
such technology  is respectful of others and  does not create a distraction or prevent the open 
discussion of the concepts being presented in the class session. Consider the classroom to be a 
professional business environment and adjust your social media beh avior accordingly. You may be 
asked to participate in live Pollev.com surveys or quizzes during class sessions. Use of an internet connected device may be necessary to take full advantage of th ese innovative and interactive  
learning opportunities.  
 
XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . I f you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity
 specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 Professionalism Policy  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette ; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom session. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arri ve on time for all class 
meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class participation grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF m ake use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the  
 
12 semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 Note: Timely and honest feedback is an important project management skill,  and you need 
not wait until the end of the term to share your perspective. Please reach out to Dr. McNair 
directly via Canvas or virtual office hours  at any point in the semester  if you have any 
questions or concerns that you think might help improve our overall achievement of the 
course learning objective s. 
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences .   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message  posting in discussion boards. Avoid using satire, humor , or 
sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.
 
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources in th e “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
 
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse   
 
13 by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online. 
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email : 
asctampa@usf.edu
.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email:  
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XXI. Important Dates to Remember  
 
All the dates for  assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the instructor . 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
Drop/Add Deadline : 25 A ugust 2023 
Labor Day  Mon – 4 September  2023 