ISM 6358 .902.F8069 4 Data Analytics for Business  
Instructor  
Kiran Garimella, Ph.D.      
M:      262-909-4192  
E-mail: kgarimella@usf.edu  
Class Information  
Location : BSN 230 5 
Time:  Wednesdays , 6:30 pm – 10:15 pm ET  
Office Hours : By Appt.  
 
Structure & Approach  
This course builds off the foundational course (QMB 6305 Managerial Decision Analysis) by 
focusing on data analytics for business majors and MBA students. For those students who have 
not taken the foundation QMB 6305, the course recaps all of those important concepts. Those 
who have taken QMB 6305 will benefit by extended treatment of those and  additional topics 
with deeper hands -on experience through various exercises, projects, and competitions. Several 
additional topics will include classification, neural networks, and decision trees.  
We will work on assignments, class discussions, projects w ith competitions, and a final exam.  
Textbook  
We will use the following books as foundational references and material for projects and 
discussions:  
Competing on Analytics: The New Science of Winning  by Thomas Davenport and Jeanne Harris, 
Harvard Business Sc hool Press, 2017:  
http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nleb
k&AN=17 98662&site=eds -live 
 
 Data Analytic Software  
We will use the software R and Microsoft Azure ML for analyzing and mining our data. They 
are both free! In fact, R is an open -source based software and as such grows much faster than 
any commercial software solution. R is one of the most powerful and popular software solutions 
for mining business data. In fact, large analytical companies such as Google or AT&T use R. R 
is also becoming more and more popular among government  agencies (such as the DOD). R is 
powerful, yet it is free – this combination makes it a winning proposition for many companies, 
especially during times of tightening budgets and financial stress.  
Microsoft Azure ML Studio is also available through a free tier with limits sufficient for 
classroom purpose. There is a very intuitive interface that allows you to build "workflows" for 
analyzing data.  
Installing R  
• Go to CRAN http://cran.r -project.org/  
• Locate your operating system (OS) in the first box of the welcome page. (Below, I will 
assume that you are using Windows; all other OS are very similar.)  
• Click on “Windows”, then click on “base”  
• Then click on “Download R 4.0.0 for Windows” (Note: the release number may have 
changed by the time you are downloading this; that is not a problem; simply install the 
most recent version.)  
• Follow all instructions during the installation process. On one of the screens, you will see 
an option to creat e an icon on your desktop. Check the box so that you can locate R 
quickly.  
• After installation, locate the “R” icon on your desktop; double -click; DONE!!  
Rather than using R (which is a command -line language) directly, we will use a more user -
friendly graph ical user interface (GUI). This GUI is called the “R Commander”.  
Installing the R Commander  
• Right -click on the R desktop icon and 'Run as an administrator'.  
• Go to “Packages” at the top of the R window.  
• Click on “Install package(s)…”  
o A window will pop up a sking you for your choice of an R mirror; select the 
location closest to you (e.g. USA TX1)  
o Another window will pop up. Scroll down until you find “Rcmdr”.  
o Select and click “OK”  
o If you are asked about installing from sources for compilation, choose 'No'. 
o You will now see several messages inside your R window; these messages 
confirm the installation of all the components necessary for the R Commander.  
o Upon successful installation, you will find the following message: “package 
'Rcmdr' successfully unpa cked and MD5 sums checked”  
• Now, type the following inside your R window: >library(Rcmdr)  o Then, hit “Enter”  
o If the system asks if you want to install any missing packages, choose 'Yes'.  
o A new window will pop up; this is the R Commander window.  
o For a quick tutorial on the R Commander, find the “Help” tab, and click on 
“Introduction to the R Commander”  
Troubleshooting:  Below are a few links that could help you trouble -shoot your installation; 
please visit them when you encounter any problems downloading or starting R Commander.  
• https://www.andrewheiss.com/blog/2012/04/17/install -r-rstudio -r-commander -windows -
osx/ 
• http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/jfox/Misc/Rcmdr/in stallation -notes.html  
• http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/jfox/Misc/Rcmdr/old -Mac-installation -notes.html  
Course Website/Platform  
I will use the Canvas to distribute various files as necessary (e.g., course documents, data, 
assignments and solutions). Please be sure to visit Canvas on a regular basis. It is best to install 
the mobile app also to see notifica tions in a timely manner. In communicating with the 
instructor, please only use the Canvas mail (not email).  
Course Format  
This is a very practice -oriented detailed course. We will discuss both hands -on implementation 
of data -driven ideas as well as more h igh-level, strategic concepts of data analytics. We will 
leverage useful tools, predominantly R, but also explore other tools to cover advanced concepts 
in data analytics.  
We will not do hardcore programming in R or any other language, perform any complica ted 
analysis, or use very large datasets. We will avoid as much as possible those technicalities that 
are the plight of professional statisticians and data analysts but do not add additional insights into 
data analytics for business itself. We will leverag e simple tools that with a few commands - 
many through a visual interface - allow you to conduct sophisticated analysis without much 
coding in the R console.  
  Course Work & Grading  
Deliverable  Points  
Quizzes ( 5 * 10 pts)  50 
Assignments ( 5 * 15 pts) 75 
Individual Presentation (1 * 25)  25 
Group Project  60 
Final  40 
Total  250 
Quizzes:  These will cover all material through presentations, videos, recordings, and assigned 
readings (if any) that are covered in class since the last quiz. Quizzes may include pre -work 
using given software (but not necessary during the quiz) and upload of scre enshots of results 
appropriate questions in the quiz.  Quizzes are open book.  
Assignments:  These will cover integrated analysis of given datasets.  
Individual Presentation:  Students will research a company, tool, or vendor in data analytics and 
deliver a presentation.  
Group Project:  Students will be assigned randomly to a group and will conduct a complete data 
analysis by incorporating multiple tools and techniques.  
Final:  The final exam is cumulative from the beginning of the class.  
Quizzes and Exams  
1. All quizzes will be a combination of True/False, Multiple -Choice  Questions, Multiple 
Answers, and possibly upload of data analysis screen shots.  
2. Questions may include results of  analysis or a visual picture of analysis and ask you to 
answer based on that information. So, it is important that you familiarize yourself with 
Rcmdr and visualizations with other tools, if any.  
3. Most quizzes will be open  book  by default (unless explicitl y stated otherwise by the 
instructor), but strictly no consultation with anyone in any form. You are to rely only on 
the textbook, your notes, or instructor's presentations.  
4. You may start a quiz or exam at any time from the time it is available. However, y ou will 
have only the maximum allotted duration from the start to complete your quiz or exam.  
5. The Final exam is cumulative  and will cover the complete material.  
6. I strongly recommend  that you do not start your quizzes and exams right before the 
deadline. If you do not give yourself enough buffer time, anything that can go wrong generally does go wrong, so don't cut it too fine. Remember, there is no makeup for any 
reason besides true, documented emer gencies.  
7. At the discretion of the instructor, quizzes and exams may be electronically proctored.  
 Late Submission  
Late submission on assignments incurs 10% penalty  per day . 
Extra Credit and Make Up Work  
There is no extra credit or make -up work available. Quizzes or exams will not be re -opened in 
case of issues with your computer. It is your responsibility to keep your computer and Wi -Fi in 
full working order. Widespread network failures will be dealt with on a case -by-case basis and in 
accordance with the University guidelines.  
Letter Grades (% of total points)  
Minimum Score  Maximum Score  Letter Grade  
95% 100%      A+ 
90%   94%  A 
85%   89%    B+ 
80%   84%  B 
75%   79%    C+ 
70%   74% C 
60%   69% D 
   0%   59% F 
Scores will be rounded up or down using the usual rounding rules. To adhere to consistency, 
academic integrity, and fairness to everyone, requests for extra points in order to achieve the next 
higher letter grade for any reason will not be fulfilled. Exceptions for makeu p work are provided 
only for true, documented emergencies or based on guidance from the University due to any 
extraordinary circumstances.  
  Syllabus  
Reading code: COA (Competing on Analytics)  
Week  Dates  Topic  Readings  Task / 
Deliverable  
1 Aug 21 – 
Aug 27 Introduction and Foundations  
R & Rcmdr   First Day 
Attendance  
2 Aug 28 – 
Sep 3  Exploratory Data Analysis  COA: Foreword, 
Introduction, 
Chapters 1 & 2    
3 Sep 4 – 
Sep 10  Understanding Data with Cluster 
Analysis  COA: Chapters 3 & 4  Quiz 1  
Assignment 1  
4 Sep 11 – 
Sep 17  Understanding Data with Linear 
Regression  COA: Chapter 5   Quiz 2  5 Sep 18 – 
Sep 24  Predicting with Linear 
Regression  COA: Chapters 6, 7  Quiz 3  
Assignment 2  
6 Sep 25 – 
Oct 1  Classification Problems & 
Confusion Matrix  COA: Chapter 8  Assignment 3  
7 Oct 2 – 
Oct 8  Precision Classification and 
Prediction  COA: Chapter 9  Quiz 4 
8 Oct 9 – 
Oct 1 5 Missing Data and 
Dimensionality Reduction   Quiz 5  
9 Oct 1 6 – 
Oct 22  Cost Benefit Analysis  (CBA)  and 
Strategic Decision Making  
(SDM)  (Online Class)   Assignment 4  10 Oct 23 – 
Oct 29  Case Studies  in CBA and SDM   Assignment 5  
11 Oct 30 – 
Nov 5  Case Studies in  CBA and SDM    
12 Nov 6 – 
Nov 9  Exam Prep   Final Group 
Project  
Final Exam  
 
  Policy Statements  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx . 
Course Policy on Acceptable Use of Genera tive AI Tools  
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to foster a dynamic learning environment that encourages technological 
adaptation, innovative thinking, and the ethical use of AI resources in academic endeavors.  
Policy:  
1. Definition of Generative A I Tools: Generative AI tools refer to any artificial intelligence -powered software, 
program or application that can generate content, including but not limited to text, visuals, music, and other 
creative outputs. Examples of these tools include AI text gen erators, AI content rewriters, AI graphic 
generators, etc.  
2. Permitted Use: The use of generative AI tools is permitted for learning and presentations, but not for the 
individual lab work in projects (use in writing industry overviews is permitted), lab work  in assignments, quizzes, 
and exams. For permitted use, students must responsibly use these tools, adhering to the guidelines outlined 
in this policy.  
3. Student Responsibility: Students are responsible for appropriately using generative AI tools in their wor k. This 
includes:  
3.1. Citing all AI -generated content used in their submissions.  
3.2. Demonstrating a deep understanding of the subject matter, not solely relying on AI -generated content. 
Cross -reference claims and statements with original sources and providing app ropriate cita tions are 
expected.  
3.3. Using AI tools as a supplemental resource (i.e., as an editor), not as the primary means of completing 
assignments.  
3.4. Understanding that generative AI tools, while powerful, are not infallible and can produce misinformation 
or inaccurate results. Students are responsible for the accuracy of their submissions and must cross -verify 
the information produced by these tools with reliable sources.  
4. Violation Consequences: Misuse of AI tools, including use of AI that u ndermines the student learning objectives 
of the course or assignment, failing to cite AI -generated content, relying too heavily on AI for work completion, 
or submitting inaccurate information generated by AI tools, will be subject to academic penalties. 
Consequences may range from a reduction in an individual assignment grade to larger academic sanctions per 
USF policy, depending on the severity of the violation (USF Regula tion 3.027).  
5. Exceptions: If there are specific assignments where the use of AI tools  is not appropriate, these will be clearly 
marked in the assignment guidelines. Students must adhere to these specific instructions.  
6. Questions and Clarifications: If students are unsure whether a tool they wish to use qualifies as a generative 
AI tool, or if they have questions regarding the allowable use of such tools, they should consult with the course 
instructor before using it.  
 
 