              ISM 4041 Global Cyber Ethics
This course is part of the University of South Florida's General Education Curriculum. It is certified for Human & Cultural Diversity. Students enrolled in this course will be asked to participate in the USF General Education assessment effort. This will involve submitting copies of writing assignments for review via Canvas. 
ISM 4041 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements of the Global Citizen Awards upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or higher).
Luis Valdes
Office: In Class
Office Hours: By Appointment – Email is effective
Email: jvaldesj@usf.edu
Course Description
This course provides students an in-depth look at the social costs and moral problems that have arisen by the expanded and international use of the Internet, and offers up-to-date legal and philosophical perspectives on the global scale for the business community. The course will feature current research, theoretical frameworks, and case studies, that will highlight the ethical and legal practices used in computing technologies, increase the effectiveness of computing students and professionals in applying ethical values and legal statues, and provide insight on ethical and legal discussions of real-world applications.
Course Objectives 
This course is designed for undergraduate information systems students, as well as other interested students. Students will be introduced to the widespread development of global cyber ethics issues. Students will learn more about impacting issues, laws, and developments that will help shape their future within the business community through technology as it spans internationally. The content was chosen to facilitate students to grow and develop professionally and morally through readings, class participation, and course activities. 
Human & Cultural Diversity (GenEd)
This course satisfies the Human & Cultural Diversity general education requirement.  This course will give you an understanding of various ethical perspectives or lens through which you and others view today’s changing world.  Specifically the challenges associated with technological advances and interconnectedness.  Understanding different ethical perspectives will assist with decision making and respecting the differences you will encounter in group and professional contexts.  Being aware of the laws, moral dilemmas, and social costs introduced by global technology will prepare you to make informed choices.
Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:
Recognize differences in people’s values, beliefs, attitudes and behaviors through exploring personal ethics in the context of computing technologies 
Demonstrate the ability to see issues from the perspectives of other groups/cultures by describing the values and communication styles found in groups different from one’s own and the way in which those differences can affect styles of verbal and nonverbal communication
Define personal values and beliefs using appropriate language and communication methods that consider others’ points of view and respect differences
Discuss global privacy threats posed by computing technologies
Identify how security issues in cyberspace raise ethical concerns
Recognize various types of cybercrime and its global impact 
Describe the key differences between intellectual property and tangible property
Discuss ethical issues in IT organizations
Discuss the impacts of the global digital divide
Describe the pros and cons of online communities
Describe multiple dimensions of global systems by exploring ethical policies and practices of multinational companies.
Course Materials
Required Text:
Ethics in Information Technology by George Reynolds 6th Edition 
George Reynolds
ISBN-10: 1-337-40587-6
ISBN-13: 978-1-337-40587-4

Ethical Lens Inventory and Simulations
ISBN-13: 978-0-9827468-3-7 (available online at https://ethicsgame.com/exec/site/login.html
or through the bookstore)

All additional PDFs, readings and other materials will be available via USF’s Canvas.





Evaluation Criteria
All grades will be determined using the following criteria:


NOTE: Please be familiar with the USF’s policies on pass/fail, withdrawal, and academic misconduct.
Grading: 


Evaluation Items
Case Study (Video) Presentation - Students will be assigned and create a (video) presentation of ONE case available in your text.  The cases will serve as a framework/benchmark to help inform and determine a strategy for your thought process and growth in the understanding of cyber ethics. The (video) presentation is worth 100 points and counts for 10% of your final grade. Students also have the OPTION of providing a case study on a topic of choice (must be approved by instructor).  Said topic must be current hot topic in cyber ethics. You will be expected to prepare a 10-minute presentation on your assigned or chosen case. In the presentation, you must:
Identify yourself and the case name
Give an overview of case details – please paraphrase…no points for just reading the case.  
Research the case topic and provide updated and/or supplementary material. 
The ethical dilemma(s) in the form of a question(s), 
State and defend their position on the dilemma.  
Discuss the questions following the case
Case Study Ethical Dilemma Peer Discussion – Using a template provided students will be expected to evaluate each case study (except the one they are assigned). Each Peer Evaluation is worth 10 points and counts for 10% of your final grade.  These evaluations are due 11:59pm on the Sunday following the presentation.

An alternative for offline sections: Team Contributions
You will form your team (about 4 students in each team) during the first week. Each team will be expected to analyze two cases from the textbook over the course of the semester. The cases will serve as a framework/benchmark to help inform and determine a strategy for your thought process and growth in the understanding of cyber ethics. The two cases count for 20% of your final grade. Each case analysis requires two contributions:
The first contribution (70 points) will be a written report of your team’s case analysis submitted to Canvas by noon of the day when the case is to be discussed. The report will be graded for both content and writing (e.g., grammar). The report should include the following components (recommendation: structure each component in separate sections of your report, with each section clearly labeled):
Give a brief overview of case details – please paraphrase…no points for just copying the case.
Research the case topic and provide updated and/or supplementary material.
Articulate the ethical dilemma(s) in the form of a question(s). State and defend your position on the dilemma.
Discuss the questions following the case.
The second contribution (30 points) will be to present your assigned case during the presentation class. Case presentation should be structured to take about 15 minutes and be supported by presentation aids (e.g., PPTs that should be submitted on Canvas by noon).
The required components are the same as those listed above for the written part.
Tips for good case presentations:
With text, less is almost always more. Avoid slides with a lot of text.
Create a consistent look and feel.
Think about topic transitions.
Use photos that enhance meaning. Do not use videos in your presentation.
Peer Evaluation.  In the final week, each student will submit a confidential evaluation of the other members of his or her team. Be candid and honest in all your assessments.

#GEA1: Ethical Lens Inventory and Professional Ethics Statement - Complete the online Ethical Lens Inventory survey and write a Professional Ethics Statement that translates your core values into specific behaviors you will follow in your professional life.  The Ethical Lens Inventory™ (ELI) is 36-question instruments that will help you identify your preferred ethical perspective and reflect on how your personal core values influence your decisions.  The ELI will also introduce you to The Four Ethical Lenses™, four perspectives for analyzing ethical dilemmas. 
This assignment is worth 100 points and counts for 15% of your final grade.  Assignment graded for both content and grammar.  Minimum word count: 500 Words
Complete the Ethical Lens Inventory (ELI). Download and attach a copy of your results to this assignment. (see Figure 1: Example ELI results below)
Write your Professional Ethics Statement which should be completed after reflection on which values of the Four Ethical Lenses.  Reflect on the dilemmas you may be faced with in your professional life and assess what are the most important values to you in your professional life. Create a professional ethics statement to guide your professional life.  
Example statement shells:  
[Choose two to four values] serve as the foundation for my work life …. To follow these values I [specific behaviors that show how you live by these values] to live out my core ethical principles.

I choose to live my work life applying [choose two to four values] and I express these values by [specific behaviors that show how you live by these values] to build a strong ethical character.

I value [choose two to four values] because [reasons why these values are important to you]. Accordingly, I will [what you can do to live by these values] to build strong, fair relationships within my work environment.

I live each day with [choose two to four values] so that [what living by these values will give
you]. I will do this by [specific behaviors you will use to live by these values] to achieve my
ethical goals.
IDEAS TO PRIME THE PUMP
Reflect on which values are the most important to you in your work life. 
Keep the statement simple and clear. Whether you are writing a short statement or a longer reflection, make sure you use words that you understand and have meaning for you. 
Keep your statement positive. Focus on your strengths and your ethical aspirations. 
Your professional statement should touch upon who you are (your character) and the values that have a significant positive impact on your work life. 
Include behaviors and character traits that you consider particularly important or ones you want to develop further. 
Be creative and come up with your own words so that your statement reflects who you are. 
Defend your statement.  AFTER YOU WRITE YOUR PROFESSIONAL ETHICAL STATEMENT: Look back at the information about your primary/preferred lens: 
Write a short statement of how well the professional ethics statement reflects the core values and areas of growth for that lens. 
Include a discussion how you might best deal with your blind spot.
Compare and contrast your ethical lens perspective with at least one other lens and how you might respect those differences.
Figure 1: Example Ethical Lens Inventory Result



Global Citizen Assignment - Ethics Simulations (2) – Students will complete two short and engaging virtual simulations that challenge them to make decisions from multiple ethical perspectives on global cyber ethical dilemmas. Each simulation is an immersive, interactive and iterative learning tool where students practice making decisions. A Hot Topics Simulation™ is comprised of two different dilemmas that allow you to role play resolving an ethical dilemma in a virtual setting. The simulations will teach you how to analyze problems from multiple perspectives and deepen your knowledge of The Four Ethical Lenses. You will also learn how to use the Baird Decision Model™, an easy to understand decision-making model. Each dilemma will take about forty-five minutes to complete and is in the form of multiple choice questions. As you go along, you will receive feedback as to why your answers are correct or incorrect from as specific ethical perspective. At the end of each dilemma you will then be asked to write a short memo to inform your colleagues of your decision and the reasons behind it. Each assignment is worth a total of 100 points and counts for 15% of your final grade.
# GEA2: Corporate Ethics Assessment - Using the insights from the lectures, case discussions, personal and professional ethics statements as a foundation; this assignment asks you to reflect on the ethical posture of a multinational corporation.  You will research a multinational company and investigate its ethical policies and practices. These polices can normally be found using a Google search. 

This assignment is worth 100 points and counts for 15% of your final grade.  The assignment will be graded for both content and grammar.  Minimum word count: 800 

Include Personal and Professional Ethics Statements – revise to include instructor feedback.
Choose a multinational corporation.  Linkable list of multinational corporations: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_multinational_corporations. 
Include a link to the corporate ethics policy page. 
Write a summary of the most salient information that describes the ethical policy of the corporation. 
Evaluate and describe how the corporate ethical policies, values, and perspectives may differ across different cultural groups, or whether for example the corporate practices and ethic statement addresses cultural and legal issues that may vary across nations or cultural groups.
Compare how the corporate ethical policies, values, and perspectives differ or are similar to your Professional Ethics Statement.  
Based on this comparison would you be a good fit to work for this company?  Why or why not?

Participation: Participation is a significant aspect of this course both in class and on CANVAS.  Students must comment on any video posted to Discussion Board and also be actively engaged in course discussions while in class.

An alternative for offline sections: In-Class Participation
Class Participation: Class participation augments the overall learning experience, and you will be evaluated based on your participation. Your attendance is expected in every class session. It is also your responsibility to prepare for every class session, read the assigned materials and participate in in-class discussions.

Some tips for effective class participation are:
Do the comments help other students learn?
Are comments relevant to the discussion and linked to the comments of others?
Do the comments go beyond repetition of the facts found within the readings? Is there a willingness to test new ideas? Are the comments creative and illustrate that the student has thought beyond the immediate application of the ideas?
Do the comments link together different ideas, whether from other parts of the course, other courses, personal experience, etc.?
In order to maximize your learning and achieve a good class participation grade, you should:
Attend class and put away electronic devices (unless needed in a particular class).
Prepare for class by completing the assigned reading and assignment (if applicable).
Engage with each other and participate in the discussion.

The following illustrates how class participation grades will be assigned (out of 5 points.)
5 points: The student attends class regularly and is well-prepared. The student is a consistent contributor to class discussions, and his/her comments go beyond recitation of facts. The student expresses well thought-out opinions about substantive issues. 
4 points: The student frequently participates, but there are times when the student’s comments indicate that s/he has not thought deeply about the readings and issues. 
3 points: The student attends class, but the student does not participate in the discussion or occasionally looks at electronic devices.
2 points: The student participates when in class, but the student is frequently absent or frequently looks at electronic devices.
0-1 points: The student is frequently absent, and the student rarely participates when in class or frequently looks at electronic devices.

Quizzes (10) – Students will complete 10 quizzes covering material in the chapters and lectures.  Each quiz in worth a total of 20 points and counts for 20% of your final grade.

An alternative for offline sections: In-Class Quizzes
Quizzes.  There will be three quizzes in this course. All quizzes are closed book and closed notes. The quizzes are not cumulative. Quizzes cover everything taught in class and in the assigned readings. Makeup quizzes will not be given, unless mandated by university policy or otherwise approved by the instructor before the quiz date. After each quiz, if you have any questions or disagreements about your quiz grading, you must submit your questions or your appeals in writing to the instructor.
Course Policies
For questions about the course content or any assignment, please utilize scheduled office hours, or call for an appointment. You can also contact me via email.
All work should be completed using professional standards. Assignments will be submitted via Canvas and submitted to Turnitin.  Please ensure that you cite any material referenced appropriately. If you have any question, please do not hesitate to ask for clarification or assistance.
To improve the efficiency and effectiveness in delivering course content, each student will be responsible for all items contained or emails sent via Canvas.
Late Assignments: There are no make-ups for course deliverables. Assignments turned in late will be assessed a penalty: a half-letter grade if it is one day late, or a full-letter grade for 2-7 days late. Assignments will not be accepted if overdue by more than seven days.
Re-grade Policy
All tests and other graded material may be submitted for re-evaluation of the grade by the instructor.  To request a re-grade, you must submit a written request within one week of the date the test or assignment was returned.  The written request must include a cover sheet that explains (1) The specific test questions or aspects of the assignment that you want re-evaluated and;
(2) Why the original grade is in error and should be reconsidered. 
Schedule: (Tentative) 15 Week
Standard Policies  
Information regarding these policies are standard items, many of which can be included as a hyperlink (http://usf.edu/undergrad/standard-policies.aspx) if so desired. Some are only necessary if applicable.
Final Examinations Policy
All final examinations are to be scheduled in accordance with the University's final examination policy.

http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf
General Attendance Policy
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAttendance.pdf
Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the observation of a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at the beginning of the term.
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf
Academic Integrity of Students
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf
Disruption of the Academic Process
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf
Gender-Based Crimes
USF has a commitment to the safety and well-being of our students.  Please be aware that educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence that come to their attention. I am required to report such incidents in order for the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity can investigate the incident or situation as a possible violation of the USF Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Policy and provide assistance to the student making the disclosure. If you disclose in class or to me personally, I must report the disclosure and will assist you in accessing available resources.

The Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention, the Counseling Center and Student Health Services are confidential resources where you can talk about such situations and receive assistance without the incident being reported.
Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention:
(813) 974-5757
http://sa.usf.edu/advocacy
Counseling Center
(813) 974-2831
http://usf.edu/student-affairs/counseling-center
Student Health Services
(813) 974-2331
http://usf.edu/student-affairs/student-health-services
Student Academic Grievance Procedures
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf
Students with Disabilities
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.
See student responsibilities: http://www.usf.edu/student-affairs/student-disabilities-services/
See instructor responsibilities: Student with Disabilities Services Faculty/Staff Handbook
Turnitin Privacy Policy
In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying information, such as name, in the body of the document. Turnitin provides an originality report letting the instructor know how much of the assignment is original. Please follow your instructor's instructions carefully regarding what identifying information to include.
How do I submit a Turnitin Assignment?
University Emergency Policy
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Elluminate, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It's the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.
