         1        Instructor: Dr. Triparna de Vreede  E-Mail: tdevreede@usf.edu Office: CIS 2063 Phone: 813-974-1776 Term: Fall 2023 Dates: 8/21/23 – 11/9/23 Delivery Method: In Person  Location: BSN 112  Course Prerequisites/ Minimum  Technical Skills & Requirements:  There are no course prerequisites.  Minimum technical skills: Ability to navigate Canvas, use Google Docs, tele-collaborative platforms (e.g., Blackboard Collaborate Ultra)  Minimum technical requirements: Computer, Internet connection, Microsoft Word and PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat Reader, Canvas Office Hours:  Via Teams by Appointment   
 Course Description In the era of digital transformation, AI is no longer a futuristic concept; it's a present-day reality impacting nearly every sector. As emerging business leaders, it's crucial to understand the opportunities, challenges, and implications of AI, even if you don't plan to develop the technology yourself. This course is designed specifically for business graduate students with no technical background. The course aims to provide a comprehensive overview of AI and its multifaceted applications in the modern business landscape. This course intends to demystify AI, breaking down essential concepts, terminologies, and techniques into layman's terms.  This course does not require any previous programming or AI knowledge. It is suitable for anyone looking to understand AI from a business perspective, preparing to manage AI projects, or intending to work closely with technical AI teams. Throughout the course, students will engage with real-world case studies, participate in thought-provoking discussions, and work on group projects to consolidate their understanding.  
 Instructor Contact Information and Communication  My goal is to be available to you as frequently as you need. If you have any questions or concerns, please email me at tdevreede@usf.edu or call me at 813-974-1776. I prefer that you message me on Teams. I will respond as soon as possible. However, please give me up to 48 hours to reply before you send a reminder.  
    ISM 6930  Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence MUMA College of Business  Course Syllabus 2 
 First Day Attendance Policy It is mandatory to attend the first class. Nonattendance of the first class will result in students being dropped from the course.   
 Course Structure  The course covers the following topics: • Introduction to AI • AI vs. Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning  • Data: The Fuel for AI • Understanding AI Technologies • AI in Decision-Making • AI and Customer/Employee Experience • Implementing AI in Business • AI Strategy • Managing AI Teams • Philosophy, Ethics, and Safety of AI  • The Future of AI  
 Student Learning Outcomes  By the end of this semester, students should be able to: • Understand and articulate key AI concepts and terminology. • Recognize the practical applications and potential of AI, ML, and DL in various business sectors. • Understand the ethical implications and challenges associated with implementing AI in business. • Evaluate and strategize the integration of AI technologies into business models and operations. • Communicate effectively with technical teams and make informed decisions about AI projects.  
 Required Course Materials  For all required readings, please refer to Canvas. Some simulations need to be purchased if necessary.  
 Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig  
 Grading Criteria  Subject of Evaluation Grade Participation  20% Group Project 30% Individual Assignment 20% AI Presentation 10% Final Issue Paper 20% Total 100%   3 Grading Scale Percent Grade Percent Grade 98 - 100 A+ 77-79 C+ 94 - 97 A 74-76 C 90-93 A- 70-73 C- 87-89 B + 67-69 D+ 84-86 B 64-66 D 80-83 B- 60-63 D-  
 Submission Guidelines • All submissions should be in MS-Word or PDF • Formatting should be Calibri, 12 Point, Double Spaced, and with 1" margin on all sides • All responses (including discussion content) will be evaluated for plagiarisms through "Turn-It-In". Any evidence of plagiarism will result in a 0 in the assignment or F in the course depending on the severity of the offense. • All submissions are due on Fridays at 11:59 PM unless otherwise specified. The submissions are open until the Sunday after but are subject to late penalty.  
 Evaluation Details  Participation (20%):  Students are expected to actively engage in class discussions, activities, and contribute to the overall learning environment.  Individual Assignments (20%):  The individual assignments are designed to encourage independent research, critical thinking, and the application of AI concepts learned in class to practical business contexts. These assignments may be distributed across the term, with each focusing on a different aspect of AI in business. The length and format of the assignments can vary based on the topic. Specific guidelines will be provided in Canvas for each assignment.   Presentation (10%):  Each student will make a short presentation on an AI topic of their choice, explaining the concept and its business implications in layman's terms. This will not only test their understanding but also help them practice explaining technical topics in a non-technical manner.   4 Group Project (30%):  The group project is a capstone activity aimed to provide students with a hands-on opportunity to apply the concepts learned throughout the course. It enables students to explore the practical application of AI in a real-world business context. Groups of 3-4 students will select a current business problem or opportunity and propose a viable AI-based solution. The chosen problem can be from any industry sector, but it should be complex enough to merit the use of AI. The project culminates in a presentation and report, showcasing their understanding of AI applications in business.  Final Issue Paper (20%): For the final assignment of the course, each students will write a thoughtful issue paper focusing on a significant AI-related topic, challenge, or trend in the business world. This issue could pertain to ethics, privacy concerns, the impact on jobs, or a prediction about future AI applications in a particular industry.   
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  I will respond to e-mail communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. I will post grades on assignments within 2-3 weeks of the posted deadline. Feedback on graded tests and materials in this course will be provided by request. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas.  
 Course Policies:   COVID Policy: As per the CDC guidelines, I will wear a mask while I am inside the classroom. I strongly recommend students to wear a mask regardless of the vaccination status as well.   Late Work Policy: Late assignments are not acceptable and may be downgraded to as low as 0% of the possible grade as per the instructor’s discretion.  Extra Credit Policy: Instructor will inform students of any applicable extra credit opportunities.  Grades of "Incomplete": For USF Tampa undergraduate courses and USFSM undergraduate and graduate courses: An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  Lecture Policy  Any lecture that is delivered in person, on Canvas, or on MS Teams synchronous classes is only meant for students enrolled in the class. Commercial distribution or public broadcast of any class lecture is expressly prohibited.   Group Work Policy  5 I strongly urge student to use your team building skills to create cohesion in your group from the beginning. However, if any challenges do arise in the group and you cannot resolve it amicably among yourselves, please come and see me as soon as possible. This may prevent negative end of the semester peer evaluation ratings. Do remember that I will not accommodate your concerns if student wait to voice them till the project deadline is looming upon student.   
 Plagiarism Plagiarism in any form will not be tolerated in this class. Every assignment will be run through plagiarism software and plagiarized material will be highlighted. Penalty for plagiarism is 0 on the assignment or a failing grade in the class. Students may not copy-paste from any resource including their own (previous class submissions) without properly quoting or citing it. All borrowed material must be properly cited according to the APA or MLA guidelines.  
 USF Institutional Policies   USF Core Syllabus Policies: USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF. Be sure to review these online at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx   Academic Integrity of Students: Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.  Everyone is expected to earn his or her degree based on personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule.    Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, speeches, etc.; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  Disruption to Academic Process: Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable 6 estimation of the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of self or other persons.  Student Academic Grievance Procedures: The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students.  Disability Access: Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting: USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974-5757.  Religious Observances: All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you should plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.   Campus Emergencies: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, college, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.   7 
 Student Expectations and Course Policies  Online Proctoring (If applicable): All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third-party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third-party privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about online proctoring you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.  Turnitin.com: The University of South Florida, via the myUSF CANVAS system, has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service (Turnitin), which allows students and instructors to submit assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Exams will be check using the Turnitin automated plagiarism detection system. For more information regarding plagiarism (http://www.grad.usf.edu/plagiarism.php), go to http://www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0102/adadap.htm. Additional information from Turnitin on the use of their system is described in their manuals at: http://turnitin.com/en_us/training/student-training/submitting-a-paper. For information on avoiding plagiarism and citing properly visit http://www.lib.usf.edu/guides/avoiding-plagiarism/.    Netiquette Guidelines:  1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.    8 Email and Discussion Board Guidelines: 1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about.  2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.    
 Course Technology & Student Support   Academic Accommodations: Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at http://www.usf.edu/student-affairs/student-disabilities-services/ . Academic Support Services: The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at- http://www.usf.edu/student-success/   Canvas Technical Support:  If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  9  Tentative Schedule Note: Subject to Change. Please refer to canvas modules for up to date information regarding deliverables and content. All submissions are due on Fridays at 11:59 PM unless otherwise specified. The submissions are open until the Sunday after but are subject to late penalty.  Week  Topic Week 1 Introduction to AI Week 2 AI vs. Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning  Week 3 Data: The Fuel for AI Week 4 Understanding AI Technologies Week 5 AI in Decision-Making Week 6 AI and Customer/Employee Experience Week 7 Implementing AI in Business Week 8 AI Strategy Week 9 Managing AI Teams Week 10 Philosophy, Ethics, and Safety of AI  Week 11 The Future of AI Week 12 Project Report and Presentation Due Final Issue Paper Due   