         1  
 
 
Instructor :  
• Barb Warner  (bwarner@usf.edu ) 
Online Office hours  via Teams :  Tuesday, 3:30 -5pm & Monday, 9 -10pm & On -campus, Thursday nights 6:30 -8pm in BSN1100  
Additional TA Office Hours  for project help : See Canv as for TA hours  
Email :  
• Contact me at the email address above or use the Canvas email system .  Grading questions should be addressed via email, not the 
assignment comment sections.   
• TAs don’t respond to email , Canvas assignments comments , messages . 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome to ISM 3011 .  I’m looking forward to a great semester ahead.  
 
II. Course Description  
The ISM3011 course material focuses on two quite  distinct content areas.   
1) The first is a survey of the language, concepts, structures,  and processes involved in the field of Business Analytics and Information 
Systems (BAIS), also referred to as Management Information Systems (MIS).   We will be reading and doing online activities related to 
these topics.  
2) The second area involves hands -on projects and explores the use of technology for analytics that support business decisions.  In both 
areas, the course tries to include some creative and interesting encounters with technology concepts that will be applicable to  all 
students, regardless of  their major. CGS2100 is a prerequisite for this course,  and it is assumed that you are proficient using your 
laptop and Microsoft Excel.  
 
III. Class Format  
• Section 020 uses an ‘All Distance’ format . 100% of the instruction is delivered online.  All assignments  and course resources 
are posted on Canvas .   There are no required meetings  but students from this section are welcome to attend the Thursday 
night session.  
• Section 021 is offered in a ‘Hybrid ’ format  where 50 -79% of the instruction is delivered online.  We meet on Thursday nights to 
go over the projects and provide  one-on-one help.  All assignments and course resources are posted on Canvas .   
• Section 099 is offered in a  ‘Classroom ’ format  where at leas t 51% of the instruction is delivered on -campus.   A ssignments and 
course resources are posted on Canvas,  and we’ll use our face -to-face meetings to discuss relevant topics and work on project  
skills. 
• All three sections have online office hours every weekd ay for project help and questions. Please take advantage of these 
opportunities.  
 
IV. Course Objectives   
This course is designed for undergraduate business students, as well as anyone else interested in the use of technology withi n 
organizations.   
Connect  activities (online learning platform) are designed to offer : 
o an overview of the disciplines within the BAIS / MIS field   
o familiarization with MIS terms, trends,  and new technologies  
o an understanding of how information systems impact all areas of an organization.  
Excel, HTML and Tableau projects  provide:  
o hands -on experiences using technology to aid with analytics and decision making.  
 
V. Schedule & Course Topics  – See Class Schedule ( on Canvas ) 
 
VI. Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:  
• identify the disciplines within BAIS / MIS and the various ways information systems are used within an organization.  
• contribute to workplace  discussions about the use of technology to gain competitive advantages.  
ISM 3011 SYLLABUS  
Information Systems in Organizations  
Sections 020, 021, 099.  3 Credit Hours , Fall 2023  2 • describe hardware, software, mobile and network system components.  
• use and understand the importance of database and analytical software.  
• identify how information systems can be used in process management and systems development.  
• discuss current trends in technology, including business intelligence, data mining, and cloud computing.  
• recognize the importance of the Internet, how it’s used, its role in society and the trends it has enabl ed (social media)  
• describe technological  threats and safeguards.  
• discuss the use of technology in the global workforce.  
• use technology to provide analytics to support data driven decisions.   
 
VII. Course Materials  
Textbook :  This semester we’ll be using the Connect platform.  The idea is to use technology to teach technology, instead of primarily 
readings and lectures.  You will purchase this through our Canvas class (see our home page).   
Laptop:  All College of Business stude nts are required to own a laptop, please bring yours to on-campus office hours (when available) if 
you need project help.  It’s often impossible  to complete projects  with a Chromebook , so you may want to use USF library computers if a 
Chromebook  is your only device.   
Webcam  / Microphone : Most laptops  come with a webcam, so you can use this or purchase a very inexpensive USB web cam for our final 
project (video required).  Most laptops also include a microphone – you’ll need this as well.   
Optional  Materials:  Any Microsoft  Office text and/or the text from CGS2100 will be helpful if you need to refresh your Excel skills. 
Lynda.com educational videos are also available to all USF students.   I’ll also supply links to online tutorials.  
Software:   We only accept projects done w ith Office software (2016 and more recent). They cannot be done with any other software (no 
Works, Google Docs or OpenOffice).   
• You can get a copy of Microsoft Office (Windows or Apple) from portal.office.com/home  (sign in with your USF netid; the softwar e is 
free).  Be sure to  download and  install the software on your computer, the online  365 Excel is not the complete  version.  
• Mac Users:  
o If you use an Apple version of Office,  be sure to check your work on Windows based version of the software , if possible,  before 
uploading to Canvas.  Again, be sure you know how to save your files correctly.  Contact me with questions.  
 
Videos:   Numerous video tutorials are posted in our Project Overview pages in the Modules area on Canvas.      
 
All other material s will be posted on Canvas.  The TAs and I offer many online office hours  via Teams .  We also offer email support  (Note 
that TAs do not respond to email or assignment comments ).   Take advantage of any or all these contact opportunities.  We are trying to 
provide all the tools for success in this class, but you are ultimately responsible for your own learning experience.   
 
VIII. Evaluation Criteria  
 
Activities must be  submitted via Canvas  Assignment Links . 
All activities can be submitted late with a 5% penalty per day, EXCEPT 
for the Adaptive Learning Activities  and Extra Credit assignments .  They 
cannot be submitted late.  Grading Scale  
• Starting / Ending  – Syllabus Quiz, Ending Survey  5%  
Connect Orientation  
• Connect Activities   
o Adaptive Learning Activities  (ALAs – drop lowest grade)  10%      
o Assessments ( short quizzes  – drop lowest  grade)  20% 
• Projects  (~ 9) 60% 
• Weekly Check -Ins (~14 – drop lowest grade ) 5% 
• Extra Credit examples – max of 15 points  
o Case studies  
o ChatGPT course  
o LinkedIn Learning  
    ________                             
Total  100%    A+ 99-100  
A  94-98.99%  
A- 90-93.99%   
B+    87-89.99%  
B 84-86.99%  
B- 80-83.99%  C+ 77-79.99%  
C 74-76.99%  
C- 70-73.99%  
D+ 67-69.99%  
D  64-66.99%  
D- 60-63.99%  
F Below 60%  
Any e xtra credit points earned will be  added to the projects total  (15 points max)  
 
• All work/assignments/announcements/grades are posted on Canvas.  3 • Grades will be available through  the ‘Grades’ link in Canvas.  
• Final grades are not rounded up unless the course average is less than 75%.  
• NOTE: Undergraduate students who enter USF under the 2001 -2002, or later, catalog are required to earn a 
grade of C - or better, in every undergraduate core class and an overall GPA of 2.0 for all undergraduate core 
classes.  
 
IX. Assignment Details  
• Syllabus Quiz:   This is a brief quiz on Canvas  to encourage you to review the syllabus, schedule, FAQ page, and our course materials 
on Canvas.  You can take this once.   
• Each Week:   I’ll post announcements on the home page and send an email announcement reminding you of upcoming activities.  In 
the M odules area of our Canvas class,  you’ll also find links detailing each week’s activities.   
• Weekly ‘Check -in’ Quizzes  – These are quick, low point quizzes to cover common questions and help us all stay engaged.  
• Connect Activities: The schedule details the  topics we’ll be covering using the online Connect activities.   The Connect activities allow 
you to learn about technology by using technology.  They are varied formats to cover concepts important to technology in 
organizations  (they are usually grade boo sters if you complete them on -time).  Only the Connect Assessments (quizzes) can be 
submitted late with the penalty of 5% off per day late. Connect activities include:  
o Readings  – these do not earn any points, but help you prepare for the ALAs and Assessments  (quizzes) . 
o Adaptive Learning Activities  (ALAs)  – these help you cover the concepts and can be used to supplement or replace the readings.  
These cannot be submitted late . 
o Assessments:  These are short quizzes, most are 20 questions , no time limit.   You can submit these assessments after the due 
date with the penalty of 5% off per day late.    
 
o Extra Credit Case studies: Case studies cover the concepts as used in industry.  So me are written, some are videos. These  cannot 
be submitted late .  Each case study is worth a maximum of 1 point.  
o Application Based Activities (ABAs) – these help you review concepts in a more hands -on manner.  These are optional, not 
required and do not earn any points.  
o NOTE :  When you complete an activity – be sure to SUBMIT it, otherwise it will be marked ‘in -progress’  
• Projects : This class has considerable  hands -on / project assignments.  Most times you’ll do a quick tutorial project  first for 10 points , 
then apply the skills to a second 100 -point project  and as time allows, finish up with a shorter project (40 points) of your choosing, 
demonstrating the skills learned . The 10 -point projects teach all the skills necessary for the other required projects.  If you come for 
TA or instructor help on a 100 -point or 40 -point project, we’ll ask to first see your completed corresponding 10 -point project.   
Projects are submitted via Canvas.  (HTML projects must also be submitted to the USF serve r).    Projects can be submitted late to 
Canvas with the 5% penalty per day late penalty , although Canvas will display a zero until a late project has been reviewed and 
graded.  
• Ending  Survey Activity  – This is a quick survey about the course.  It is differ ent from the Oasis course evaluation.  This asks you free 
response questions, so I can read your comments and make improvements.  I wait until all grades are posted and remove  all 
identifiers before reading the responses.  
 
X. Covid -19 Procedures , Syllabus Policies  
• As Covid poli cies are quite fluid, please check with the USF website for the latest recommendations.  
• Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -
syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XI. Course Policies:  
• Office Hours : MS Teams will be used for all office  hours and links to these sessions will be on the Canvas home page.   It will be up to 
students to attend office hours as needed in order to ensure a successful learning experience.  
• Due dates / times – Late dates / times :  Canvas is the official clock for turning in work – and the due date time is 11:59:00pm Eastern 
Standard Time (not 11:59:59pm).  Don’t wait until the last hour  to submit work  – as it may take some time  to complete your 
submission,  or your clocks and the Canvas clock may not be synchronized .  Late work penalties can be adjusted if  notification is sent 
before the due date.  A doctor’s note is also required, before the due date, excusing you from work and school during the whole 
assignment time.   If a project has several parts, if one part is  submitted late – the whole project is considered late   
• When work is submitted late, it may receive a zero grade  until the assignment is reviewed and graded.  This is a Canvas feature.  
• Support :  The TAs and I are available for project help during the week.   I am also available for project help via email  (not the TAs) , 
although weekend email support is limited  and it’s often harder to adequately respond to project questions via email .  Start early 
enough to beat the ‘due date rush’ and so that if the TAs can’t answer your question, you’ll have time to contact your professor .  TAs 
help with projects, if you have other course questions, please contact your professor . 
• Submitting Projects :   4 o Check your project u ploads - Required : To do this, look at the submission information on the right side of your screen and 1) 
download  a copy a copy of your project files FROM Canvas to another folder on your computer.  2) Open these files, be sure 
they’re complete, the right project, etc.  and then 3) save these copies. These are your back up copies and the creation and last 
modified da tes will be retained as long the projects are not opened again.   
o As a reminder, many semesters there are many  students , often more than 700,  in the various sections, and we spend a lot of time 
grading.  In an effort to get your grades to you as soon as possible, we’ll start reviewing projects as we see them submitted  to 
Canvas.  Please don’t submit your project unless you are ready for us to g rade it.  Please check your all uploads to be sure the 
right project files have  uploaded correctly.    
o Work submitted to Canvas incorrectly that cannot be opened or graded for any reason is considered late and may or may not be 
accepted later.  Again, c heck your upload to avoid this.  
o Work that is submitted to the wrong assignment on Canvas is also considered late (late penalty applied) and will only be acce pted 
if submitted before the due date (or late date, if there is one).  One more time, c heck your uplo ads to avoid this.  
o No work is accepted via email.  Projects must be submitted via Canvas.  
o Each set of projects takes up to 2 weeks to grade.  This process is not automated; we open each project and grade it. Please be 
patient while we review work & post grades.  Late projects / bad uploads are  usually graded after this period.  
o Once a project is graded, it can’t be resubmitted for a higher grade . 
• Submitting Other Assignments:  
o As with all transactions over the Internet, it’s always a good idea to keep a cop y documenting what you’ve done!   
o Check your quiz scores when you’ve completed them.   You can even take a screen shot of any submissions or of the screen 
showing your score and save it to a folder of ‘screenshots.’  Just be sure your log -in information and date / time is also included in 
the screenshot.  
• Your Grades : 
o We know grades are important and try to be very attentive while grading and recording grades.   Please do your part by keepin g 
copies of all submitted work, monitoring your own gr ades and keeping all graded correspondence/returned work.  
o Canvas has a ‘ what if’  feature that lets you look at your grade, enter grades you think you may get in the future and see where 
you stand.  Take advantage of this.  
o Re-grade  requests should be email ed within two weeks from the date your grade was posted  and before the end of the semester.  
To do this, download and review a copy of your submitted project from Canvas and then email  me (not T As)  with a description of 
what was graded incorrectly and why  it’s incorrect.  We will do a re -grade but will re -grade the whole project and any grading 
mistakes or omissions (positive or negative) will be corrected.   
o ‘Technology problems’ , including bad files, bad file names, not knowing how to upload to Canvas co rrectly (not checking an 
upload), locked files, lost work, slow or bad Internet connection, power outages at your home, etc. are not valid excuses for  
late/missing work – they are just part of using technology .  Ask questions, get help, do your work earl y and check that 
assignments are submitted correctly so the inevitable technology problems will not lead to missed points.  We offer many cont act 
hours each week to help you with this.  
o Medical Issues - From  USF Student Health Services:   ‘Students should not attend class if they are ill, particularly if they have fever 
and/or gastrointestinal symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as a sneezing, runny nose, sore throat or coughing.  
Students experiencing a ny of these symptoms should contact immediately the Student Health Services (813 -974-2331) on the 
Sarasota -Mantatee and Tampa campus or the Wellness Center (727 -873-4422) on the St. Petersburg campus for appropriate 
medical guidance and to obtain a verific ation of care letter. Students may turn to other health providers as well. ’ To be approved 
for missed classes, late assignments or missed examinations a verification of care letter from USF health services or area 
physician must be presented by the student  to the faculty near the start (within a week) of any illness or condition that 
prevents class participation.  
• Extra Credit  is usually  available during the semester.  Any extra points will help if you are ‘close’ to the next grade level and usually the 
place of any curve or any ‘rounding’ in the class.  Activities will be described  on Canvas.  Any integrity violations involving extra credit 
will result in the loss of all extra credit points.    
• Canvas  - All class announcements and class materials are on Can vas.  CHECK it FREQUENTLY  (Canvas is your friend…)   To use Canvas 
you must go to my.usf.edu and sign in using your USF NetID and Password.  If you are a new user or have forgotten your passwo rd, 
instructions/links are available from my.usf.edu to help you.  Once you are signed in, click the Canvas tab and  find our class and 
familiarize yourself with the course website . If you have any issues, contact USF's IT department at it.usf.edu/help,  (813) 974 -1222 or 
help@usf.edu . 
• Email to me should be sent  via Canvas or your USF email account .  Email is usually answered within 24 -48 hours (not including 
weekends/holidays).  
• Email from instructors is usually sent via Canvas, which is tied to your university/student email account.  It is your respon sibility to 
change your USF email ‘preferences’ if you want to forward email to a different account.   This can be done through Canvas. You 
should  also set up your Canvas preferences to notify you when any announcements , email or grading comments  are posted.  Be sure 
to check your JUNK/SPAM folders for all class related email that may be inadvertently filtered  5 • MS Teams:  We’ll be using Teams software  for some office hours and you should assume the session is recorded.  S tudent interactions 
may be heard in the captured content.     
• End of Semester Student Evaluations:   All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will not ify you by 
email when the response window  opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
• Academic Integrity - Integrity does matter  
Please review:  http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf ) 
o We value learning and realize that technology allows work to be copied easily so we  have a strict academic integrity policy.   As 
part of that, we require that all projects be done individually (unless specifically noted) .  We have found that more individual 
learning occurs when students use critical thinking, problem solving skills, cou rse / online resources and a bit of trial and error to 
work through these projects.   The TAs and I are available for project help. To facilitate learning we try to guide you to fi nd your 
own solutions, rather than just tell you an answer .    
o **Do not emai l your work to anyone else to use as a ‘sample’, or as a copy of the data or share in any way .  Do not deny them 
the opportunity to experiment and learn potentially valuable career skills.  Also, we use software to detect duplicated work.    It is 
your resp onsibility  to be sure your project cannot be copied or viewed by anyone else.  
o If you share a computer with another person (not recommended) or use a public computer, remove any project work to a flash 
drive each time you are done working on the project .  
o Quizzes are completed online and again, are individual activities.  All work must be completely your own - no copying, pasting, 
quotes – just your own words/efforts.   
o Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  Offer specifics about your policy on contract cheating, pape r mills, or the use of websites that enable 
cheating.  Example: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may no t use websites that enable cheating, such 
as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any 
use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation  of the academic integrity policy.  
o Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly 
and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers th at 
grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit specific assignments via the appropriate Canvas / 
TurnItIn assignment. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and  how 
another author’ s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
All that being said… copying, plagiarism or any other form of misrepresen tation of one's work is considered cheating - this 
includes cutting/pasting from the Internet or copying anyone else’s projects/ assignments or  sharing solutions in any way. 
This applies to all course assignments. The minimum penalty for collaboration/cheat ing on an assignment is a zero for 
that assignment  and a referral to the USF and Muma Undergraduate Studies Administrator .  This is applied to all parties 
involved.  Maximum penalties may include an F or F/F in the course (instructor’s discretion).  Studen ts who have been 
referred for an academic integrity violation in a prior class will be subject to an F/F in this class in accordance with USF’ s 
academic integrity policies and after discussions with pertinent faculty members, and Muma College of Business 
Undergraduate Advising.  
o College of Business policies do not allow students to drop classes due to academic integrity violations.  Students will be ad ded 
back into classes in these situations.  
 
I do not enjoy the ‘academic dishonesty’ part of teaching – it is emotional for all & takes A LOT of time to deal with.  However, 
I do feel very strongly about honesty/integrity and I do uphold University/my course policies on cheating.  One survey of IT 
professionals found that the key attribute they looked for in ne w hires was integrity (above technical skills). I treat academic 
dishonesty very  seriously and will fail students who cheat on tests or turn in work that is not completely their own.  See 
“Academic Dishonesty” in the Undergraduate Catalog for further discu ssion.   
 
If you have questions on academic integrity issues relating individual assignments or tests – please contact me, I’ll be glad to 
discuss this in more detail.   
 
XII. Additional USF Policies / Resources  
• Standard University Policies.  Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integri ty and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply  to all 
classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
• Emergency  Operations: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  It’s the 
responsibility of each student to monitor our Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF,  College, 
and depart ment websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.  6 • Incomplete Policy: An ‘I’ grade may be used for situations where a student has an unforeseeable emergency at the end of the 
semester (after the withdrawal date), has a C grade o r better in the class and only has a small part of the course to complete.  Written 
approved documentation is required.   Incompletes can’t be used if a student is busy, falls behind or is not doing well.  Stu dents doing 
poorly in a course should withdraw f rom the class or risk receiving a poor/failing grade.  See our schedule for the last day to 
withdraw from the class.  
• Religious Holy Days : Students who must miss a scheduled test due to the observation of a major religious observance must provide 
notice of  the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, during the first 2 weeks of class. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
• Students with Disabilities : Stud ents in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the office of Students with 
Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to request ing an 
accommodation.  
• Disrupt ion of the Academic Process - http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
• Use of notes and recordings:   Please review the official USF policy on this for more info, but the policy states that notes, recordings, 
handouts and other material provided by the instructor cannot be exchanged or distributed for commercial purposes or for any 
purpose not related to  a student's study or enrollment without written authorization of the instructor.  
• Tutoring Hub  -  For more information, email asctampa@usf.edu  
• Writing Studio  - For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
• Counseling Center  - The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally sensitive 
counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is 
available online .  
• Center for V ictim Advocacy   - Example:  The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting 
the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resources. Contact information is  
available online .  
• Class and Online Courtesy – Please review the ‘Getting Started’ section of Canvas and note the two sections: 1) “What Can You Expect 
From the TAs and Me”  and 2) “What the TAs and I Expect from You”.   
• Campus  Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent 
ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this co urse may 
involve discussio n of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you  should 
personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the 
idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of  your 
personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding o f the 
ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIII. How to Succeed in this Course  
• Get started right away!   If new to Canvas, read Canvas Guide  
o Review the syllabus and Canvas mat erial.  Be sure you understand how the class works.   
o Get access to the Connect platform as the first assignments are due soon .  See our class Home page on Canvas for more on this.  
o Note our Office hours - via a link on our Canvas home page.    
• Keep up with  the class .  Each week:  
o Read our Canvas Home page and modules area each week to keep up with class information, project due dates, any extra credit 
opportunities, etc.  
o Complete the Connect activities for each week.    
o Work on the assigned projects, don’t procrastinate on these.  
o Note all due dates.  
• Turn in your projects on -time .   
o Project information and resources are in the Assignment area of Canvas.  
o Use the Project Overview link found on each assignment page. The overview and any skill links include d demonstrate skills you 
will use to complete the projects. There are also some basic tutorial site links available in the FAQ section.  
o Start early, get help when needed.   Give yourself enough time so that if a TA or USF IT support can’t answer a question , you still 
have time to contact me and get help before the due date.  If I can’t resolve the issue, your project won’t be considered lat e.  If 
you wait until the last minute and have issues, I probably won’t be able to get to your questions before the due  date and your 
work will be considered late.  
o Projects are due frequently , and it is recommended that you complete them as early as possible so you can get help, if necessary, 
before the due date.  7 • Upload your projects to Canvas AND check your uploads!  
o Be sure to submit and check your work early so you have time to get any issues resolved before the due date.  Remember, there 
is no scheduled weekend support.  
o After you submit your project, CHECK YOUR UPLOAD to be sure it was uploaded correctly on Canvas. See  instructions above in the 
‘Course Details’ section.  
o If your project doesn’t upload correctly, you can resubmit it.  To do this, go back to the upload link and submit the project  file.  
Then check your upload again.  We only grade the last project submitted. If you are submitting several files for an assignm ent – 
resubmit all of them.   
o Once your project has been graded, it can’t be corrected and / or resubmitted.  Don’t submit work unless you are ready for it  to 
be graded.  
• Do any extra credit activities available .  Any extra credit points may take the place of any curve or any ‘rounding’ in the class.  
• Keep track of your grades on Canvas .  Note that any grayed -out grades are considered ‘drop’ grades by Canvas (drop grades are not 
available every semester).  If you use the what -if feature, where you enter your grades to see your final average, be sure  to enter 
zeros for any work not submitted.   
 
**Most students do very well in this class, however if this is one of your last classes needed to graduate or to keep a scholar ship, be 
sure to  
• Get access to the Conne ct system right away.  
• Review and understand how this course works.  
• Mark your planners and work ahead.  
• Do all the Connect activities.  
• Do all the projects.  
• Complete  any extra credit offered and  
• Take advantage of the numerous office hour sessions on Teams.  ISM 3011  Sections 020 , 021, 099 – Course Schedule for Fall 2023 
This schedule is not set in stone, but we will try to keep changes to a minimum and give as much notice  as possible.  
 
 Each week also has a required, quick ‘Weekly check -in’ assignment  
Week  Connect  activities & topics .  
Due every Sunday  Projects and other i mportant due dates . 
1:    8/21 – 8/27 • Introductions , Text information, 
Attendance  
• Connect Topic / Activities  - Orientation  • Friday, 8/25, Noon – Complete First Week Attendance assignment by 
noon or be dropped from the class (USF policy)  
• Get Access to the Connect System – see home page on this.  
• Connect Activities for the first week are due on 9/ 3, as well as week 2 
assignments.  
2:    8/28 – 9/3 • Spreadsheets  • Sunday, 9/ 3:  Syllabus Quiz  
3:    9/4 – 9/10  • Databases  • Sunday, 9/10: Grade Calculator Project  
4:    9/11 - 9/17  • Data Analytics  • Sunday , 9/17: HTML 1 Project  
5:    9/18 - 9/24  • Networks / Internet   
6:    9/25 – 10/1  • Artificial Intelligence  • Sunday, 10/1: HTML 2  
7:   10/2 – 10/8  • Cybersecurity  • Sunday, 10/8: HTML 3  
8:   10/9 – 10/15  • Business Management (Bus Mgmt)  Systems  • Sunday, 10/ 15: Excel 1  
9:   10/16 – 10/22  • Social Media   
10:   10/23 – 10/29  • Ethics & Privacy  • Saturday, 10/28, Last day to withdraw from the class without penalty.  
• Sunday, 10/29: Excel 2  
11:   10/30 – 11/5  • E-Commerce  • Sunday, 11/5: Excel 3  
12:   11/6 – 11/12  • Competitive Advantages  • Thursday, 11/10; Veteran’s Day – USF closed.  
• Sunday, 11/12: Tableau 1  
13:   11/13 – 11/19  • Decision Making   
14:  11/20 – 11/26  • Blockchain & Cryptocurrency  • Friday, 11/23 -11/24: USF closed for Thanksgiving.  
• 11/25 – 12/1: Test Free Week  
15: 11/27 – 12/3  • ERPs  • Tuesday , 11/28: Tableau 2  
• Tuesday , 11/28:  Citizen Data Science Certificate Survey  
16: 12/4 – 12/7   • Thursday, 12/7: Ending Survey Closes (this is not the same as the course 
evaluation)  
 
• Please keep up with the work each week and work ahead when you can.  Work accepted after the posted ‘late date’ is only accepted if 
accompanied by a doctor’s note within a week of the due date and only for the activities assigned during the documented perio d.  See the FAQ 
page on Canvas for more on this – including ex amples.  
• In an effort to get your grades to you as soon as possible, we’ll start reviewing projects as we see them submitted to Canvas .  Please don’t 
submit your project unless you are ready for us to grade it.   
• Please check your all uploads to be sure the  right project has uploaded correctly – see our FAQ page for instructions.   Once graded, you won’t 
be able to modify / resubmit.  
• If you have any grading issues, please email me directly.  The TAs don’t answer email and we don’t respond to assignment area  comments .    
• Most work is due on Sunday; late work is penalized 5% per day late. Work due on 12/7 (last day of class) cannot be submitted late.  Optional or 
Extra credit assignments cannot be submitted late unless specifically noted.  
• There may also be som e extra credit available – a max of 15 points can be earned.    
 
• Other Registrar dates can  be found at  https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  
 
 