 
         1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester: Fall 2022 (Multiple Sections)  
Class Meeting Days: R 
Class Meeting Time: 12:30– 4:15 pm  
Class Meeting Location: In-Person Instruction  
Instructor:  Don Berndt  
Office Location:  CIS 2073  
Office Hours:  W 7-8 PM (Online)  
Office Phone:  (813) 974 -6769  
Email:  dberndt@usf.edu  
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome to the database class (ISM 6218).   Data science is an exciting area and major 
theme of our graduate programs.  This is clearly a multi -disciplinary field, but effective 
data management is certainly a core skill.  While this course does focus on the widely used 
relational model, alternativ e technologies that rely on distributed processing approaches 
balance the coverage.  The course is laid out as a series of distinct core modules, typically 
one per week (a couple if they are small).   These core modules include textbook readings, 
assignment s and online quizzes.   Special topics are used to cover additional material 
and/or emerging technologies.  
 
This course includes significant hands -on experience, so you will apply what you learn.  
The discussions and assignments will also reinforce important competencies such as 
creative thinking, teamwork and digital skills (see the nationally -standardized care er 
readiness competencies at http://www.naceweb.org/career -
readiness/competencies/career -readiness -defined/  for details).  
 
II. Univ ersity Course Description  
This course  covers core business database technologies.   Topics include database design, 
transaction processing, parallelism, and distributed databases.   Emerging business 
intelligence technologies are covered.   A database system is used for projects.  ISM 6218:  
Advanced Database Management  
CRN: XXXXX , Section: 001 , Credit Hours : 3 
Muma College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 8/16/2023  
 
 
2  
You can find the official description at  http://ugs.usf.edu/course -inventory/ . 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
There are no official prerequisites .  However, there is an assumption that you have taken 
a database course prior to admission in our program (or have significant professional 
experience).  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
This course is designed for the MS graduate student and interested MBA students.   The 
overall course objectives are to provide a sound database system foundation, while 
highlighting additional special topics and applications.   To meet these objectives in a 
single course, introductory topics are combined with a selection of more advanced 
topics.   For example, fundamental relational database topics are reviewed, including 
query writing and database design.   In addition, more advanced topics, such as indexing, 
query processing, and parallelism look at database perf ormance issues typically covered in 
a second semester course.   These topics taken together provide a foundation for effective 
database use.  
 
Students will develop applied skills such as query writing using the Structured Query 
Language (SQL), database desi gn and Entity -Relationship Diagrams (ERDs), along with 
query performance tuning by looking indexing and query optimization.   Special topics that 
complement the core modules provide coverage of emerging high -impact technologies, 
such as NoSQL databases and cloud computing.   The final modules will introduce data 
warehousing and data mining techniques, which are covered more thoroughly in 
subsequent elective courses.  
 
The class focuses on a combination of theory and practical database use, which will be 
illust rated primarily through the Oracle DBMS software.   The Oracle database engine is 
freely available for educational use from Oracle Corporation.   Therefore, students will 
have access to many of the sophisticated tools at home and on mobile platforms.   In 
addition, access to local database servers will be provided, so all hands -on projects can be 
pursued in an industrial quality environment.   Though the primary database engine will be 
the Oracle DBMS, coverage of Microsoft SQL Server will be included to highli ght common 
features, as well as alternative approaches.  
 
V. How to Succeed in this Course  
First, please visit Canvas often and monitor all course announcements.  Canvas will be the 
primary means of communicating, as well as organizing and presenting the cours e 
content.  For each week, review the most important material identified in “Start Here” 
pages.  Our in -class time is designed to further and deepen the knowledge, concepts, and 
skills from the readings – not just repeat the information.  We will also use hands -on 
laboratory activities to reinforce and apply skills.  USF also suggests many study tips, so 
have a look at the resources below.   
 
3 Study skills of successful students:  This one -page handout details  what the study skills 
behaviors of top students look like: http://bit.ly/successfulstudentbehaviors .  This 18 -page 
PDF provides 101 individual tips for effective st udy skills and note -taking: 
http://bit.ly/studyskillstips   
 
Best practices for hybrid courses : Successful students should follow these tips to succeed 
in classes where they swi tch between remote and in -person attendance: 
https://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/student -best -practices -hybrid.pdf   
 
Canvas:  See the Community Guides at https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Student/gh -
p/student . 
 
Micrsoft Teams:  See best the practices video for Teams at https://youtu.be/q6zqaSMtnjg .  
For some written guides, see the student introduction 
(https://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/student -guide -microsoft -teams.pdf ) and etiquette 
(http://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/teams -etiquette.pdf ) documents.  
 
VI. Course Topics  
Part I  - Structured Query Language (SQL):  The course starts with hands -on query writing as 
a core skill (and to foster student engagement) , along with a look at the relational 
database model.  
 
Part II  - Database Modeling and Design Review: Brief coverage of database modeling and 
design issues is intended as a review before the preliminary group project design is due.  
 
Part III - Database Architecture: The Oracle DBMS will be used as a hands -on example of a 
relational DBMS to illustrate the theoretical topics, as well as to implement the semester 
project.  The first few classes will be used to cover specific aspects of the DBMS engine 
(from a DBA -like perspective), with the goal of estab lishing a foundation for the remainder 
of the course.  
 
Part IV – Advanced Relational DBMS Technologies: This part of the course surveys key 
database technologies such as storage subsystems, query optimization, transaction 
processing, concurrency control, a nd other topics.  Again, the Oracle DBMS will be used to 
illustrate the material.  
 
Part V – Alternative Database Models: Important topics such as high availability 
databases, distributed databases, and parallel databases demonstrate the techniques 
necessar y for enterprise -level data infrastructures.  
 
Part VI – Special Topics: A selection of special topics such as object -oriented databases, 
data warehousing, and data mining will be covered as time permits.  
 
  
 
4  
 
 
VII. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Describe the widely used relational database model.  
2. Write queries using SQL.  
3. Design and document database systems using entity -relationship diagram (ERD) 
tools.  
4. Implement database systems using SQL data definition statements and integrity 
constraints.  
5. Apply various techniques such as index structures and optimization modes to 
improve query performance.  
6. Contrast a variety of alternative (NoSQL) database models with the relational 
model with regards to work load fit.  
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
Recommended textbook:  A Silberschatz, HF Korth and S Sudarshan, Database Systems 
Concepts , Seventh  Edition, McGraw -Hill, 2010, ISBN 9780078022159 .  The authors also 
maintain a website with a lo t of helpful material:  https://www.db -book.com .  This book is 
recommended, not strictly required.   The course uses this edition, but you can get by with 
a slightly older edition (or even another good technical database book) to reduce cost s.  In 
addition to the textbook, there is a wealth of online documentation and other readings 
that are included within the modules.   See the course resources page, as well as specific 
links within modules.  
 
For hands -on activities, we will use the Oracle RDBMS and several existing example 
databases.  However, coverage of other relational systems such as Microsoft SQL Server 
and alternative NoSQL technologies is included throughout.  
 
IX. Supple mentary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Oracle maintains an extensive library of online documentation that students will find 
useful during the course (see https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle -
database/ ). 
 
   
 
5  
 
X. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)   
94-100 A  
90 – 93 A-  
87 – 89 B+  
84 – 86 B  
80 – 83 B-  
77 – 79 C+  
74 – 76 C  
70 – 73  C-  
67 – 69 D+  
64 – 66 D  
60 – 63 D-  
0 – 59 F  
 
 
XI. Grade Categories and Weights  
The course relies on three types of assessments: 1) online quizzes (as self -paced checks on 
core modules), 2) group assignments that apply skills and 3) a final project that requires 
some creative thinking and the synthesis of skills.  These activi ties are weighted as show 
below.  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
Online Quizzes (8)  40% 
Assignments (4) – Adjusted based on course duration.  40% 
Final Project  15% 
Participation and Attendance  5% 
 
XII. Course Assessments  
 
There are three categories of assignments or activities used for assessment.   
1. Online  quizzes  (8) are part of all core modules (after the introductory module), 
accounting for 40%  of the grade.  
2. Assignments (4) are given in selected modules, with roughly two weeks to 
complet e (for a total of 40%  of the grade).  The first two assignments on query 
writing and database design are structured.  The following two assignments are in 
the style of "experiments of the week" with students designing experiments that 
explore the relevant topics (some suggested ideas are provided).   These 
assignments are intended to be group  activities.   Note: For shorter versions of the 
course (6 -8 weeks), one assignment may be dropped.   
 
6 3. The final project  (20% ) gives you an opportunity to design a database for yourself 
in whatever area interests you.   You can re -visit and improve experiments from 
prior module assignments as well.   You can pursue a completely new database or 
build on some of the case studies (li ke the university database, relational movie 
database or milestone market).   Just make that clear in the final project 
plan.   Again, this project should synthesize material from prior assignments, 
providing an opportunity to incorporate any feedback and ex pand the coverage of 
critical topics.   Make sure to include an executive summary highlighting the topics 
covered and any improvements or extensions to prior material.  
4. Class participation  will be based on contributions in class, discussion boards 
and/or oth er collaborative meetings .  This will along with peer assessments from 
group members will be used to reward highly engaged participants.  
Group assignments and the final project are to be completed by a small group 
(approximately 3 -5 people) and involve the  design and implementation of database 
experiments, as well as query writing, design, and even database administration activities. 
The application areas may extend one of the example databases design used in class or 
based on a work -related project (with p rior approval).  
 
XIII. Grade Dissemination  
The Canvas system will be used throughout the course.  Students can access scores and 
other information at any time using “Grades” in Canvas.  
 
XIV. Course Schedule  
This is a tentative course schedule for a 12 -week format.  O f course, adjustments would 
be made based on course duration such an 8 -week format.  
 
Week  Modules  Assignments  
1/12 Module 1: Relational Databases   NA  
2/12 Module 2: Structured Query Language (SQL)  
Special Topic: Recommender Systems   Quiz 1: SQL  
Assignment 1: Query Writing   
3/12 Module 3: Database Design  
Special Topic: Database Programming  Quiz 2: Database Design  
Assignment 2: Database Design  
4/12 Module 4: DBMS Architecture   Quiz 3: DBMS Architecture  
5/12 Module 5: Indexing and Hashing  Quiz 4: Indexing  
Assignment 3: Tuning  EotW 1 
6/12 Module 6: Query Processing  Quiz 5: Query Processing  
7/12  Module 7: Transaction Processing  Quiz 6: Transaction Processing  
Assignment 4: Tuning EotW2  
8/12  Module 8: Parallel Databases  Quiz 7: Parallel Databases  
9/12  Special Topic: Database Security  NA 
10/12  Module 9: Distributed Databases  Quiz 8: Distributed Databases  
Final Project   
 
7 11/12  Special Topic: NoSQL Databases  NA 
12/12  Special Topic: Data Warehousing and Mining  NA 
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision . 
 
XV. Standard University Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF.   These may be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.as px  
 
XVI. Covid -19 Procedures  
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing  
during in -person clas ses.  Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct and Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XVII. Course Policies  
 
Late Work Policy : Graduate students may be b alancing work demands with their studies.  
Extensions may be possible on a per -assignment basis in advance of a due date.  
Unexcused late assignments will be assessed a penalty: a half -letter grade if it is 1-2 days 
late, or a full -letter grade for 3-7 day s late.   Assignments will not be accepted if overdue 
by more than seven days.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Grades of incomplete are to be avoided if at all possible 
(especially at the graduate level).  Any students that are at risk of not completing the 
course  should reach out to the instructor as soon as possible.  The preferred approach is 
to turn in most of the assignments even in draft form and receive a final grade, which can 
be adjusted later once the final versions of any missing assignments are submitte d.  The 
formal university policies governing an “I” grade are as follows.  
 
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise 
earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor 
of the course. For undergraduate students, this time li mit may not exceed two academic 
semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever 
comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic  
 
8 semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limi t will be changed to “IF” or 
“IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the 
instructor’s discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements 
due to illness or other ci rcumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and 
student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to 
be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero 
for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses 
and one semester  for graduate courses  from the original date grades were due for that 
course.  An "I" grade not cleared within the  two semesters for under graduate courses and 
one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade 
noted on the contract.  
 
Group Work Policy : Everyone must take part in a group project.   All members of a group 
will receive the same score; that is, the project is assessed,  and everyone receives this 
score.   In addition, However, every person in the group will provide the instructor with a 
peer assessment at the end of the semester.  The ins tructor will adjust the total 
assignment grade based on peer suggestions (by up to 10%).  
 
Email : The Canvas Inbox is the preferred method of communication, but you may use 
official USF email as a second method (see the email address above).  The goal is to  
respond within 1 -2 days to any request.  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas.   
The Canvas Inbox feature is the preferred method of communication.  If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides . You 
may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
XVIII.   Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Attendance Policy:  Students are expected to attend classes.   Faculty must inform 
students of attendance requirements on syllabi.   Instructors should accommodate 
excused absences by making arrangements with students ahead of time (when possible) 
or by providing a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work.  
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students 
may not use websites that enable cheating, s uch as by uploading or downloading material 
for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use 
of th ese website s (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy .  
  
 
9 Professionalism Policy:  Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, 
iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures.   Those not heeding this 
rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to n ot disrupt the learning 
environment.   Please arrive on time for all class meetings.   Students who habitually 
disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a 
reduction in their final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Studen t Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for 
students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course.   These surveys will 
be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email 
when the r esponse window opens.   Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Food and Drink Policy:  Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than 
bottled/capped water), food, tobacco products, or like items in the classroom.   Your 
understanding of the necessity for this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. 
This policy will be strictly enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this course,  turnitin.com  may  be utilized .  Turnitin  is an automated 
system which instructors may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's 
assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers 
that grows with each submission.   After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from turnitin.com t hat states if and how another author’s work was used 
in the assignment.   For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
 
XIX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
 
Tampa Campus  
 
Tutoring Hub  
Example: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. App ointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information , email asctampa@usf.edu   
 
Writing Studio  
Example: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and gr aduate 
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with 
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments 
are recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an 
appo intment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
 
Counseling Center  
Example: The Counseling Center promote s the wellbeing of the campus community by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
 
10 enhances student academic and personal success . Contact information is available 
online .  
 
Center for V ictim Advocacy  
Example:  The Center for Victim Advocacy empower s survivors of crime, violence, or 
abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making,  by advocating for their rights, 
and by offering support and resources.  Contact information is available online .  
 
 
 
St. Petersburg Campus  
 
 
Student Success Center  
Example: The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and writing consultations . 
Contact information is available online .  
 
Wellness Center  
Example: The Wellness Center provides counseling and medical services, as well as 
prevention programs and victim advocacy . Contact information is available online .  
 
 
 
Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
Tutoring and Writing Support  
Example: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring and writing consultations 
for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance, 
Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish . Make an appointment online .  
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
Example: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you 
can talk about incidents of  discrimination and harassment, including sexual 
harassment, gender -based crim es, sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship 
violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
 
Victim Advocate  
Example: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance 
leave a message with your phone number and your call will be returne d as soon as 
possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and 
partner violence.  
 
 
  
 
11 XX. Important Dates to Remember  
All the dates  and assignments are tentative  and can be changed at the discretion of the 
professor.   To confirm these dates, please see the official USF calendar maintained by the 
Registrar  (see https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/ ). 
 