  
 
 
 
 
 
Instructor:  Giti Javidi  
Office Location:  C217  
Office Hours:  Tue 3:00p-4:00p (via MS Teams)  
Phone Number:  941-359-4257  
Email:  javidi@usf.edu  Semester:  Fall 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  Hybrid – See be low 
Class Meeting Time:  Hybrid – See below   
Class Meeting Location:  Canvas  (In class Location 
TBA)  
 
 
IMPORTANT DATES:  
August 21 Classes  begin  
August 2 5  Drop/add  ends;  fee liability/tuition  payment  deadline   
September 4 Labor Day  holiday; no classes  
September 18  Fall graduation application deadline  
October 2  Midterm grading opens   
October 1 7 Midterm grading closes  
October 2 8 Spring last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty  
October 30  Spring/Winter registration begins  
November 1 0 Veterans Day holiday; no classes   
Nov. 2 3-24 Thanksgiving holiday; no classes   
Nov. 25–Dec. 1 Test Free Week  
December  2 Last day of spring  classes  
December  2-7 Final Exam Week  
December 1 2 Final grading closes   
December 1 5 Final grades visible on OASIS  
 
 
MANDATORY IN -PERSON DATES/TIMES:  
5:00p -7:45P  
August  30, September  27, October  25, and November  29  
 
 
COURSE PREREQUISITES: ISM 4323  
 
CATALOG DESCRIPTION:  
Investigation of the role of Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC) in Cybersecurity 
management process including key functions of cybersecurity policies, management, planning  and 
implementation . 
 
COURSE OBJECTIVE:  
The objective of this course is to prepare students to employ the theoretical and conceptual underpinnings of 
information security and de velop security -related skills in practice in the context of private, public, or 
government enterprises. The course introduces students to effective Cybersecurity Governance, Risk 
Management, and Compliance (GRC). The course covers key functions of Cybersec urity planning, policies, and 
ISM 4570  
Cybersecurity Governance and 
Planning  
School of Information Systems and Management 
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity 
Management Program  
  the administration of technologies. The legal and regulatory environments related to local, state, national and 
international cybersecurity concerns are also discussed.  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:   
 Ebook Access Security Policies and I mplementation Issues with Theory Labs, 3rd edition, Robert 
Johnson; Chuck Easttom, ISBN:  9781284200041 © 2022  
 
OPTIONAL TEXTBOOKS:  
 Cyber Security Management: A Governance, Risk and Compliance Framework , 1st Edition, Peter Trim 
and Yang -Im Lee, ISBN -13: 978-1472432094, ISBN -10: 1472432096  
 Management of Information Security, 6th Edition, Michael E. Whitman, Herbert J. Mattord  
ISBN -10: 133740571X, ISBN -13: 9781337405713 © 2019  
 Rewired: Cybersecurity Governance, Ryan Ellis (Editor),  Vivek Mohan (Editor), ISBN: 978 -1-118-
88821 -6 April 2019  
 
COURSE TOPICS: This course will cover the following content areas:  
• Information s ecurity laws, polic ies and  frameworks  
• Information s ecurity  governance and compliance  
• Business Continuity Ma nagement Planning Framework  
• IT infrastructures domains  
• Implementation and maintenance of IT  Security Policy frameworks  
• International compliance policies  
• Designing, implementing, and maintaining IT security policies  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: Upon completion of this course, students will be able to : 
1. Identify the role of information systems security policy and governance and their relationships with 
business drivers  
2. Recognize compliance laws and security policy require ments  
3. Recognize business challenges within IT infrastructure  
4. Explain security policy frameworks, implementation and enforcement issues  
5. Understand the process of designing, organizing, implementing, and maintaining IT security  
6. Compare and contrast multiple frameworks  
7. Apply governance and compliance to real world case studies  
8. Identify the best practices for IT policy framework  
9. Describe common policies by domain  
10. Describe types of security control requirements for IT infrastructure domains  
11. Identify risk ma nagement policies  
12. Describe common data and incident classification techniques  
13. Describe the different issues related to defining, tracking, monitoring, reporting, automating, and 
organizing compliance systems and emerging technologies  
COURSE POLICIES:  
• Canvas: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help  learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following vide os or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact 
USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . The course will include recorded lectures, 
reading assignments, tests (midterm and Final) , discussions and  homework (posted on CANVAS).  
•    Recorded videos and instructor notes : Course participants are not permitted to sell notes or video 
recording of class lectures.   
•    Honorlock:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  
or quiz.  
 
COURSE STRUCTURE:   To assist you in your efforts to master th e knowledge and competencies necessary to be successful, this course 
is structured according to the following:  
• All course material, including recorded lectures, exams, assignments, discussions, and lab exercises will 
be available on Canvas. There will be 16 Modules on Canvas, each representing a week. Each module 
will include the learning objectives of the week, checklist for the tasks to be completed for that week, 
and all teaching  material  and deliverables (i.e. assignment, discussion question, etc.) for that week.  
• In this course, you will have  1 assignment , 10 lab exercises, 1 final project and weekly quizzes.  
• There will be two exams; midterm (Week 7) and final exam (Week 16).   
• Please remember that our week starts on Sunday  and ends o n Sunday. The assigned tasks  are always 
due on the 11: 59p on a Sunday . Always go th rough the checklist for each week  on canvas  to see if there 
is anything due on the Sunday of that week. You can also use the course calendar as a checklist.   
• There will be weekly reading assignments.  The assigned readings for each week  are available for each 
weekly module.  
• There will be 14 discussi ons where students  post their thoughts on canvas on a topic and respond to two 
posts made by peers . All discussion topics will be available on Canvas.  
• All students must take the midterm and final exams at the same time at a designated time, no exception. 
Honorlock will be used to proctor the exams.  
 
GRADING POLICIES  
• Late Work Policy : All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. of the due 
date. Late assignments will be graded with penalty unless prior permission has been granted by your 
Instructor. Assignments  turned in late will be assessed with penalty  of 5 points for each day late.  
Assignments will not be accepted if overdue by more than five days.  
• Incomplete Policy : An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the 
student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time 
limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this 
time limit may not exceed t wo academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or 
graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic 
semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to  “IF” or “IU,” 
whichever is appropriate.  
• Make -up Exams Policy : A make -up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor 
in advance that s/he cannot take the exam on the assigned date.  
 
GRADING SCALE  
Student performance for this course will be evaluated based on exams , assignments,  and discussion 
participation as detailed below. Below is a summary for the determination of the final grade and an 
explanation for each component:  
 
Deliverables   Percentage of Grade  
Theory Labs  20% 
Weekly Quizzes  10% 
Exam s 30% 
Final Project  30% 
Class Participation /Discussion  10% 
Total  100%  
A+ = 97 -100; A=94 -96; A - =90-93; B+ = 87 -89; B=84 -86; B - = 80-83;  
C+=77 -79; C = 74 -76; C - + 70-73; D = 60 - 69; F = 59 or below  
  
COURSE  EXPECTATIONS  
• Attendance Policy : This class is hybrid which means that it will be an asynchronous course but we will 
have mandatory in -person classes on the Sarasota campus on the last Wednesday of each month : 8/30, 
9/27, 10/25 & 11/29 . 
• Course Hero/Chegg P olicy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use  websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of th e academic integrity policy.  
• End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for students 
to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the 
end of the semester, and  the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. 
Your participation is expected and valued.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easil y compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, 
as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you 
will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After th e 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another 
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turniti n.com .  
• Syllabus Terms : All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  
terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in 
the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accep t all terms.  Any student  may elect  to drop or withdraw  
from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
• Honorlock  for the Exams:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  
Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  
taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased  and 
controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  with the 
permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.  To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  
should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an 
appropriate  space  for the recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any 
recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for 
violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Student s are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they 
take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be 
provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required  to download  and 
install the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF  
online  proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of 
policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -
syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
WEB PORTAL INFORMATION  
Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail account.  Students receive official USF 
correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu . 
 
GENE RAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to 
contact their prof essors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or 
regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services 
(http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic -resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which 
are provided at no cost to students.  
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether  students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can  help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, 
practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school infor mation sessions.   Access 
these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa 
Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and 
graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work 
individually with you,  at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to 
editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or 
to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center:  The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus 
community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, 
and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact 
information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocati ng for their rights, and by offering support and resources. 
Contact information is available online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center: The Student Succ ess Center provides free tutoring and 
writing consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center: The Wellness Center provides couns eling and medical services, 
as well as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is 
available online .  
Sarasota -
Manatee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring 
and writing consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, 
Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish. Make an 
appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and 
harassment, i ncluding sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. 
For assistance leave a message with your phone number and your call will be 
returned as soon as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of 
crime, sexual assault, and partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with me? You can either (i) send me an email directly or through C anvas, or (ii) call/text 
me or (iii) set up an appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please 
write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email. The emails should be composed 
professionally  and the language should be courteous and respectful.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted through 
Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, unless 
your question is about that subject. If you  are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email 
address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous text from that email, 
if your email pertains to something else.  
  How will I communicate with you? I will send an nouncements through Canvas. The announcements should 
arrive in your inbox. If you send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send 
me an email directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to  reply to your 
emails within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Spam Mail folder so if you have not received my response within 24 
hours, please either resend your em ail or call my office phone number and leave a message in case I am not in 
my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments through Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and announcements. 
I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   It is a lot of trouble  to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I had a reason 
for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and expectations and have your 
questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a more productive semester. Please 
read every word  in this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me any questions.  
• Complete the reading assignmen ts:  You will get a lot more out of this class if you complete the assigned 
readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never complete it or try to cram 
it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, un satisfactory grades are due to 
procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete the assigned 
readings for this class.  
• Watch the recorded lectures/external videos:  Some modules will include recorded lectures and Li nkedIn 
Learn videos. The lectures that are prepared by me contain topics that I think are the most important in the 
course. Please watch them.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing assignments /labs :  You cannot pass the course without doing at least 
most of t he assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you get behind, you will 
find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Complete the quizzes:  Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage you to 
complete them by the due da tes. 
• The bottom line “Do not procrastinate. ” 
 
 