Response of Business to Global Environmental
MAN 4743
Fall 2023
Classroom - Face to Face Class


Professor: Office: Office Hours:
Electronic Mail
Mack (Dug) Cooley     Rm: BSN 2208
2:00 p.m., Monday, and Wednesday
By appointment cooleym @usf.edu





Course Description and Purpose

This is an advanced course designed to provide detailed information on leading-edge approaches to managing enterprises for effectiveness in the Anthropocene Epoch. The Anthropocene is a time of unprecedented human impact on the environment. Using sustainability theory and indicators, the course will familiarize participants with new macro approaches to managing and evaluating economies. It will also familiarize participants with new micro approaches researchers and practitioners have developed to manage multi-national corporations and other organizations (and with related forms of evaluation and reporting that reflect the complexity of the new approaches). We will apply Stakeholder theory, triple bottom line models, and other conceptual frameworks based on environmental sustainability. These intellectual tools are useful in understanding, constructing, and appraising the effectiveness of a variety of contemporary macro and micro-organizations.

In the first part of the course, we will introduce participants to the theme of the Anthropocene Epoch, to the global environmental problems that define this epoch, to the need for more radical and innovative approaches to planetary stewardship, and to important macro issues involved in managing economies for sustainability. In the second part of the course, we will make the case that effective management of global businesses and other organizations depends on broad concepts of performance focused on sustainability, rigorous evaluation frameworks, and valid measurement criteria, including metrics for science-based targets. In discussing specific approaches to evaluating progress toward targets, we will examine some of the genuine and less genuine responses corporations and other organizations are making to the imperative of environmental sustainability.

The central concept in the course is sustainability, which refers to high, long run effectiveness of institutions and organizations in three domains of impact: economic, social and environmental. We will elaborate the concept of sustainability by discussing institutional and organizational effectiveness using measurement criteria in such areas as risk management, financial return, cost containment, ethics, diversity, equity and inclusion, governance and transparency, business relationships, employment practices, community involvement and economic development, quality of work life, the real costs of products and services, and especially protection and restoration of the natural environment. We will give special attention to the natural environment in this course because the relevant issues are so urgent.

Sustainability-centric evaluation of institutions and organizations is a relatively new development. It reflects the rapid changes occurring in the worlds of business and government as well as in economics, management, and other areas of academic thought. We will rely on an overarching philosophical framework, key theoretical concepts, current business research, and select case studies of prominent global and local organizations. However, much of the material in this field is at the leading edge of organizational research and management practice. Accordingly, we will conduct the course as an advanced seminar requiring high quality research, detailed reading, and radical thinking.




Learning Outcomes and Global Citizenship Project Objectives

If the course is successful, you will be able to:

Demonstrate understanding of major global environmental issues in the Anthropocene Epoch and the impact of multinational corporations and other global organizations on the environment (Cognitive Domain-Knowledge);
Compare and contrast the single ‘bottom line’ approach to assessing institutions and organizations with more comprehensive frameworks and broader concepts in analyzing effectiveness and fitness for the global competitive future (Cognitive Domain—Analysis);
Create new insights by conducting original research on existing institutions and organizations using sustainability indicators and criteria (Cognitive Domain—Synthesis);
Through structured opportunities for reflection and exposure to diverse value systems and worldviews, build greater self-awareness when it comes to humanity’s role in producing global environmental problems and resulting personal and professional responsibilities (Affective/Conative Domain—Self-Awareness);
Defend your willingness to express personal and professional concern for other people and the environment in settings where self-interest is often expected (Affective/Conative Domain— Willingness);
Apply theory and research (including case studies) to learn methods of practice aimed at improving corporate environmentalism and related financial and environmental consequences (Affective/Conative Domain—Practice).

This course does not have a prerequisite but the concepts and reading material will be more useful to you if you have some background in environmental studies, social science, and organizational research and management theory. You should also have some academic background in group dynamics and teamwork, which would normally be satisfied with a basic course in Organizational Behavior. It is important that you realize this is an advanced course and that it will require extensive reading and class involvement.

Course Readings [Books below are referred to on pp. 6-9 of the Syllabus using initials (e.g., (BL)].

John A. Mathews (2017). Global Green Shift: When Ceres Meets Gaia. New York: Anthem Press. (GGS). [ISBN: 1783086408]. (Required): Free for you through Textbook Affordability Project. Use: https://ebplus.lib.usf.edu/students/?course_id=MAN4743.001S23&semesterName=Spring-2023
[3 Chapters]

Guy Pearse (2014). The Greenwash Effect. New York: Skyhorse Publishing. (TGE). [ISBN: 978-1- 62873-726-4]. (Recommended). [2 Chapters, Provided via PDF].

Ray C. Anderson (2010). Business Lessons from a Radical Industrialist. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
(BL). [ISBN: 978-0-312-54455-3]. [11 Chapters].

Thomas L. Friedman (2009). Hot, Flat, and Crowded—Why We Need a Green Revolution and How It Can Renew America. Release 2.0. New York: Picador/Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2009. (HFC). [ISBN: 0-312-42892-8]. (Required). To Avoid Confusion in Reading Assignments, Make Sure You Purchase Release 2.0, the 2009 Edition). [4 Chapters]

In addition to assignments from the books listed above, selected articles, book chapters and other readings will be available through USF’s Canvas website in the “Articles and Book Chapters” folder. If the reading is not available in the Articles and Book Chapters folder, see Syllabus for a listing of a URL for the piece. Please read the assigned material prior to the class for which we list it (see pages 6-9). You can purchase GGS, TGE (Recommended), BL and HFC in 
print or as e-books. 

Unless posted in our Canvas “Announcements”, Exams this semester will be closed books and notes.

Attendance Policy, Grading Scale, and Basis for Grades









Syllabus details: See https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx 
Canvas and Online Sources
We will post all course material, syllabi, instructions, assignments, and related communications on Canvas. USF expects each student to engage fully with the course and with all course content posted on Canvas. Recorded classes are copyrighted and must not be shared with any third parties.

Disruption of the Academic Process

Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. USF defines disruption of the academic process as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the professor (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of self or other persons.

USF prohibits misconduct on the premises of all campuses of the USF System. USF defines misconduct as any behavior that adversely affects the University community and/or the pursuit of its mission. This applies directly to the classroom, including virtual classroom meetings. Please acquaint yourself with: http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.025.pdf


Unless posted in our Canvas “Announcements” section, there will not be any extra credit or accept past due assignments.

Policy on Incomplete Grades

An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be assigned to a student only when a small 
portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. We will give an incomplete grade only after full discussion of the relevant issues with the professor and only if the circumstances a student is facing are considered serious enough to compromise the student’s performance in the class markedly.

Academic Fraud and Integrity of Students

USF defines and discusses Academic dishonesty in the University’s Undergraduate Catalogue (see Pages 44-46 or see www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0001/ADADAP.HTM). Academic dishonesty of any type will result in, at a minimum, an “F” for the assignment and may, depending upon seriousness, result in an “F” for the course and dismissal from the University. We cannot tolerate academic fraud, be it cheating, plagiarism, or any other form of dishonesty. Academic fraud interferes with open and honest exchange in the classroom. Because of this, we must work diligently to deter academic fraud.

Turnitin Policies and Plagiarism Checks

Submitting assignments to the SafeAssign Global Reference Database allows your paper to be checked for plagiarism against papers from USF and other institutions. This ensures and protects the originality of your work. Turnitin also checks your written work for plagiarism against all published sources and internet sources. Become familiar with plagiarism restrictions and norms and be very careful to cite properly any sources you use in formulating your answers. If you incorporate exact words from another source or person into your own writing, be sure to use quotation marks correctly and appropriately. It is very important that you neither accidentally nor intentionally plagiarize any other source because this will result in serious academic consequences.

No Unauthorized Personnel Allowed in Virtual Classroom

http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/proposed-regulation-usf4.0140-trespassing-loitering- revised-021111.pdf prohibits other than registered students and invited guests from being present in the physical and virtual classrooms.

Students with Disabilities

Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of needs for accommodation at least 30 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.

Student Academic Grievance Procedures

USF has procedures in place for students with academic grievances. These can be found at http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf

Gender-Based Crimes

Educators must report incidents of gender-based crimes including sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, dating violence and domestic violence. If a student discloses in class, in papers, or to an instructor, the instructor is required by law to report the disclosure. The Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention (813-974-5757) is a confidential resource where you can talk about such situations and receive assistance in confidence. Additional confidential resources on campus are: the Counseling Center (813-974-2831) and Student Health Services (813-974-2331).



Food and Housing Insecurity
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed-A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their website), or Student Outreach and Support (socat@usf.edu or their website).

Availability of Internships

For students interested in internships, please see the following website: www.usf.edu/business/student-success/internships/

Statement of Academic Continuity


In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course-specific communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages for important general information (USF Policy 6-010).

For other relevant USF Core Policy Statements, see https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx





Introduction to Course and to Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch

M 8/21	Introduction--Response of Business to Global Environmental Problems
Class introductions, 1st Day Attendance. Syllabus review, and how the class will work., 
BL: Forward, Prologue; Chapter 14, “Awakening the Mind and Spirit”

W 8/23	Introduction to the Anthropocene Epoch
**Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.” Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to Thriving in the Age of Accelerations. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Pp. 157-184.


M 8/28	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Climate Change I--Basic Issues
**Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.” Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to Thriving in the Age of Accelerations. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Pp. 157-184.
Video 3: Bill Nye, Climate 101
Video 4: C-SPAN, Snowball in the Senate

 W 8/30	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Climate Change II--Advanced Issues
**Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.” Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to Thriving in the Age of Accelerations. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Pp. 157-184.
BL: Chapter 13, “Science and Skeptics”. 
Video 5: Skeptical Science, Arctic Sea Ice--Minimum Volumes Video 6: HHMI BioInteractive, The Science of Climate Change

W 9/6	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Feedback Loops, Tipping Points and Abrupt Environmental Change

M 9/11	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Feedback Loops, Tipping Points and Abrupt Environmental Change
BL: Chapter 13, “Science and Skeptics.”
**Jon Queally (2019), Common Dreams, “Climate Tipping Points Could Hit Harder— and Sooner—Than We Think.”
Video 7: United Nations, Scientists Explain Tipping Points

W 9/13	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Biodiversity Loss and Species Extinction
HFC: Chapter 8, “The Age of Noah.”
**Thomas L. Friedman (2016), “Mother Nature.” Chapter 6 in An Optimist’s Guide to Thriving in the Age of Accelerations. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Pp. 157-184.
**Brandon Keim (2019), Nautilus Magazine, “Never Underestimate the Intelligence of Trees.”
Video 8: World Wildlife Fund, What Is Biodiversity?
Video 9: Arizona State University, Why Is Biodiversity So Important?


 M 9/18	Key Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Synthetic Chemical Pollution
**Damian Carrington (2022), The Guardian, “Chemical Pollution Has Passed Safe Limit for Humanity, say Scientists”
**Tom Perkins (2022), The Guardian, “New US Lawsuit Targets ‘Forever Chemicals’ in Plastic Food Containers.”
Video 10: Rob Billot, Dark Waters—Official Trailer
Video 11: Craig Leeson & Tanya Streeter, A Plastic Ocean—Official Trailer Video 12: Environmental Defense, Slow Death by Rubber Duck

Managing the Economy for Sustainability in the Anthropocene Epoch

W 9/20	Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: What is Sustainability and Why Should We Care?
**Thomas Prugh & Erik Assadourian (2003). “What is Sustainability, Anyway?” World Watch Magazine, Sept.-Oct.
Video 13: Roman Krznaric, How to Be A Good Ancestor

M 9/25	Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Comprehensive Planning 
HFC: Chapter 10, “Green is the New Red, White and Blue.”
Video 14: Leonardo DiCaprio, UN Messenger of Peace—Be Prepared to Discuss Mass Movement Devoted to “System Change, Not Climate Change” Using Tom Friedman’s Model of a Clean Energy System (HFC, Ch. 10) and L. DiCaprio’s Thesis Articulated in His UN Speech

(7) W 9/27	Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Technology and Innovation
HFC: Chapter 11. “205 Easy Ways to Save the Earth.”
Video 15: Scott Brusaw, Solar FREAKIN’ Roadways!
Video 16: United Nations, A Technofix for the Climate? Atmospheric Geo-Engineering

 M 10/2	Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Government (U.S., China, India) 
HFC: Chapter 14. “If It Isn’t Boring, It Isn’t Green.”
Video 17: United Nations, What Is the Paris Agreement?


(8) W 10/4	Exam I (1:00 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Eastern Time Zone—Tampa, Florida) Your Take Home Essay Questions Are Due Before 1:00 p.m., 3/3/23


Managing Firms for Sustainability in the Anthropocene Epoch

 M 10/9	Solutions to Problems in the Anthropocene Epoch: Activist Corporations
**David Lubin & Daniel Esty (2010), Harvard Business Review, “The Sustainability Imperative.” Pp. 1-4, 8-9.
Video 19: CNBC, Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff and the New Capitalism

 W 10/11	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Manufacturing Doubt
**David Michaels (2005). Scientific American, “Doubt Is Their Product.”
Video 21: Naomi Oreskes & Erik Conway, Merchants of Doubt (Official Trailer)

 M 10/16	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: The Greenwash Effect
**David Gelles (2015), New York Times, “Social Responsibility that Rubs Right Off.”
TGE: “Introduction,” “Conclusion.”
**Katie Jahns (2022), CNBC, The Environment Is Gen Z’s No. 1 Concern—And Some Companies Are Taking Advantage of That
Video 22: Greenwashing Satire (Blurry)
Video 23: CBC Marketplace, Greenwashing—Busting Eco-Labels (First 2 Minutes and 7:00-8:40)

(11) W 10/18	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: The United Nations Global Compact 
**The Earth Charter’s Preamble and Principles (2018). (Use it to construct your vision of environmental sustainability).
Video 24: United Nations, 21 Years of the UN Global Compact Uniting Business for a Better World
Video 25: Georg Kell (UNGC), Business in Society (Watch from 2:30 minute mark to about 5:30 minute mark for details on Communication on Progress)

M 10/23	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: The Sustainable Development Goals, Science Based Targets, and the Global Reporting Initiative
**Victor Chan (2021), Ernst & Young Online, “Why There is an Urgent Need for Global Sustainability Standards.” 
Video 26: World Business Council, CEO Guide to the Sustainable Development Goals Video 27: Science Based Targets Initiative, Science Based Targets
Video 28: Moneyball, Science vs. the Scouts
Video 29: GRI Secretariat, The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Video 30: Global Reporting.org, Our Vision for the Future of Reporting

W 10/25	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Case Study of Walmart and Sustainability Reporting
Laura Close (2018), Boss Magazine, “Walmart Sustainability at All-Time High.” Video 31: Walmart, Project Gigaton 101

 M 10/30	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative--Case Study of Patagonia, Inc.
** Interview with Yvon Chouinard, Patagonia Founder and CEO

 W 11/1	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Metaphors for Change (Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 1)
BL: Chapter 1. “Mission Zero;” Chapter 2: “The Power of One Good Question;” Chapter 4: “Mountain Climbing.”
Video 32: Interface Carpets, Ray Anderson on Sustainability and History of Interface


M 11/6	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 2
BL: Chapter 5, “Zero Waste.”
BL: Chapter 6, “Smokestacks and Other Relics.”
Video 33: IndyStar, Subaru Indiana Works As A Zero Waste Landfill Site

W 11/8	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 3
BL: Chapter 7. “Plugging into the Sun.”
BL: Chapter 8. “Round and Round They Go.”
Video 34: Interface, Solar Made Carpet at Bentley Video 35: Blackbox Film & Media, Welcome to Sodom
Video 36: Dell’Orco & Villani, New Titan Textile Recycling Machine

M 11/13	Responses to the Sustainability Imperative: Case Study of Interface Carpets, Part 4
BL: Chapter 11. “The Final Ascent.”
BL: “Tomorrow’s Child” (Poem from Chapter 15, pp. 271-272) Video 37: CBS, The Fascinating World of Biomimicry
Video 38: In the Green, What Nature Can Teach Us about Sustainable Business Interface Carpets and Sustainability Metrics (“Mission Zero”) (www.interfaceglobal.com/Sustainability.aspx) (All Groups—Review Website)


 W 11/15	Supplemental information.


 M 11/20	Exam II : In class, bring your laptop!

 W 11/22	No Class

M 11/27	No Test Week 

W 11/29	No Test Week
