

MAN 4329: People Analytics

Faculty: Manish Mohan	Email:  ManishMohan@usf.edu   		            
Semester: Fall 2023
Class Days: Tuesdays Class Time: 6:30 – 9:15 PM
Location:  BSN 2304 and some classes on MS Teams
Office Hours: Before and after class and by appointment 
Course Objective
The goal of this course is to introduce you to the essentials of People Analytics. The course is aimed at graduating seniors who have already completed core business courses on Marketing, Strategy, Leadership and Finance.
MAN 4329 focuses on the study of defining business strategies, aligning and measuring people to meet those strategic objectives and then motivating them by using appropriate incentive plans. This course will also emphasize the role of systematic information gathering and analysis in making business and people decisions. Basic mathematical and statistical techniques will be introduced during the course to analyze these results.
Structure
There are three main components of this course:
- Class discussions are based on assigned cases and readings, and the discussions are structured to highlight the key learning points in each case. Students are expected to be prepared to address questions relevant to the discussed topic.
- Hands-on exercises using Excel to make business decisions. 
- A PowerPoint Report and Formal Presentation regarding How People Analytics are applied in a firm of your choice.

This project will include analysis, documentation and suggestions for improvement of People Analytics in a firm of your choice.  The Report should include the following components:
Firm Background, Product(s), Value Add, Differentiation from Competition, Product Pricing, People Performance Measurement - KPIs, Compensation (Base + Variable) Analyses, Incentives (Promotions) and Rewards

Bonus Points will be awarded for including Excel or Statistical Analysis in your presentation.
Grading
Each student's overall course grade will be based upon the following:
A. Class attendance / contribution 5% (individual)
B. 3 Cases = 3 X 20% = 60%
Safelite Glass, Lincoln Electric and Mary Kay Cosmetics
15% case write-ups(group) + 5% for class quiz (group)
C. Reports and presentations 35% (group)
- Mid-term report 10% (group) and presentation 5% (group)
- Final report 15% (group) and presentation 5% (group)



Grading Scale

The grading system follows the USF +/- Rubric:

A+ 	98-100	      		B+	87-89		C+	77-79 		D+	67-69 
A	94-97			B	84-86 		C	74-76 		D	64-66
A-	90-93			B-	80-83		C-	70-73 		D-	60-63
Course Readings 
- Course Packet for MAN 4329 (~ $30) from USF Tampa Bookstore and cases and readings as assigned in class


Group Write-ups and Presentations
The course requirements consist of building, analyzing, and solving models of the assigned cases. Case write-ups and group presentations will be done in teams of 4 - 5. Teams will be assigned in class. Case write-ups are due at the beginning of the class on the day the case is discussed. For more than two excused class absences, class attendance grade will reduce by 1. Peer evaluations may be considered in determining individual contribution. There will be no examinations.   


Course Syllabus



Email and Phone
Feel free to contact me via email at manishmohan@usf.edu. You can also call me on my phone at 813-943-6934.

Religious Preference Absence Policy
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the observation of a major religious observance must provide advance notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes. 

Accommodation Policy
Students with documented learning and/or physical disabilities in need of accommodations should be encouraged to work with Student Disability Services and inform the instructor about any special requirements they may have. All reasonable efforts should be made to accommodate students with regard to note taking, reading assignments and test taking.

Academic Dishonesty Policy
Academic dishonesty of any type, including plagiarism, on any assignments in this course will not be tolerated.  Please see the University's Undergraduate Catalogue for definitions of academic dishonesty and the consequences.

Sale of Notes or Tapes
No notes or tapes of this course are permitted to be sold.

Closure Policy
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  During the time that the University is officially closed, delivery of instruction may continue through methods such as Blackboard and/or email messaging.  It is the student's responsibility to monitor Blackboard for further instructions. 

 
Covid-19 Procedures
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID-19 mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing during in-person classes.  Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development, and possible removal from campus.
Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx

Class Recording
Classes may be recorded and streamed online. Student’s voice and video will be included in the class recording. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their surroundings and background is maintained.

Online Proctoring
Quizzes and examinations will be conducted using online proctoring tools. Keeping the audio and video (microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is a must. If the student is not willing to use these, the student is asked not to register for this course. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period. Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third-party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third-party privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about online proctoring you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at http://www.usf.edu/innovative-education/resources/student-services/online-proctoring.aspx


Course Policies: Student Expectations 

Title IX Policy:
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking. The Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.  Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit: https://www.usf.edu/title-ix/gethelp/resources.aspx. If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813-974-5756 or va@admin.usf.edu.

Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. 

In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. 

Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.

Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual Freedom Act” can be found online.

Course Hero / Chegg Policy: 
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 

Professionalism Policy: Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade. 

End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued. 

Food and Drink Policy: Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly enforced. 

Turnitin.com: In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 

Netiquette Guidelines
1.	Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
2.	Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.  
3.	Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read. 
4.	Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for. 
5.	Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.

Learning Support and Campus Offices
Academic Accommodations
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota-Manatee campuses.
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.

Academic Support Services
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website.

Canvas Technical Support 
Contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
IT website for the Tampa campus.
IT website for the St. Pete campus.
IT website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Center for Victim Advocacy
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse 
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by 
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.

Counseling Center
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that 
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online. 
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Tutoring
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates. 
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email 
asctampa@usf.edu. 
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.
Tutoring website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Writing Studio
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate 
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with 
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are 
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: writingstudio@usf.edu. 
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.
Writing studio website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Important Dates to Remember

Dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor. For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/ 

