


MAN 4282 – Organizational Assessment


Fall 2023
11:00am-12:15pm, Monday – Wednesday
BSN 120

Hassan Hussein Ph.D.
Office Hours: M/W 12:30pm – 02:00 pm and by appointment
XXXXXXXX Hall
xxxxx@usf.edu

Organization is an integrated part of its environment. Managers must fully understand how the organization relates to the environment and how it should function internally. Organization design provides the tools to assess and understand how and why some organizations grow and succeed while others do not. A good assessment of the organization explains what happened in the past, as well as what might happen in the future, so that we can manage organizations more effectively. It, therefore, helps managers analyze and diagnose what is happening and the changes that will help their companies grow and succeed and the steps managers might take to keep the company competitive in a fast-changing world. 
The focus of this course is on the analysis and measurement of factors which influence organizational effectiveness and the quality of work life. Data based cases will be used by students to assess managerial and supervisory skills and to measure organizational functioning and work design. 
In line with the mission of the Muma School of Business, this course combines theory and practice to equip students with skills to become successful leaders capable of making well-reasoned decisions in a globalized and turbulent 21st century. The primary purpose of this course is to familiarize students with new business models being used that reflect the complexity of the new business models by focusing attention on the concept of organizational effectiveness in the broader environment of business, and on contemporary methods of assessing organizations.


LEARNING OUTCOME 

Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: understand the concept of organizational assessment and recognize organizational assessment issues.

understand the concept of organizational assessment and recognize organizational assessment issues.
understand how the changing environment affects the way managers design and change organizational structure to increase organizational effectiveness.
identify and recognize the relationship between organizational ethics and organizational goals.
understand and discuss the role of government forces (i.e., regulations) and their impact on organizational goals and effectiveness.
understand and discuss the role organizational culture plays in organizational structure and design.


REQUIRED TEXTS

Richard L. Daft (2021) Organization Theory & Design: 13th edition. Cengage Learning, Inc. 

This book serves as our basic text for the course.  It is generally clear and well organized and offers good case studies which we will use as an integral part of this course. In addition to this text, I may require you to read additional handout materials: book chapters, articles, case studies, and radio shows.  Videos will also be used in this course. 
 

COURSE STRUCTURE

The course is designed to increase students’ engagement in practical and relevant application of organization concepts using a holistic organization anatomy approach. An organization’s anatomy (check the organization’s anatomy chart on canvas) is a way to help you conceptualize and envision an organization as whole. Following this approach, you will be able to assess every functional area of an organization then assess how all those functional areas work together in harmony to ensure organizational effectiveness. 


SELF-DIRECTED LEARNING

As a student of this advanced class, you are the person primarily in charge of your learning. You are responsible for understanding all assigned reading materials, assignments, and in-class problem solving. If you face any challenge in reaching your achievement goal for this course, I am more than willing to help you push yourself. You should utilize class discussion and office hours to raise any point or difficulty you may face in understanding course topics. As a self-directed learner, you should also utilize the different learning tools of the course. Primary learning tools of the course include: 
Textbook: You are responsible for reading, studying, and ultimately understanding the material presented in the textbook. To get the most from our text, you should complete the reading assignments prior to class and come to class prepared to ask questions and contribute to the discussion. 
Class Discussions: The objective of lectures and class discussions is not to cover everything you have just read. Rather, in class we will review the main concepts, principles, tools, and techniques from the chapters to promote your understanding and to link them to the real world. I expect you to come to class prepared to participate in discussions, respond to questions, and ask questions of your own about material you don’t fully grasp.
Weekly Quiz: the notion of the weekly quiz, that you must submit ahead of the first class every week, is twofold. The first is to help you cover the assigned reading for the week prior to the class. The second is to give you an opportunity to determine any difficulties you may face in understanding the topics to be covered during the week, and to come to class prepared to ask questions and contribute to the discussion.
Group Project: you will form a small team with other classmates and be assigned a topic to explore, report, and present to the entire class. This will encourage peer learning, not only through your groupmates but also through other groups. 
Test: Like all other assignments, tests are an important learning tool. There will be midterm and final tests during the semester.  


MAJOR ASSIGNMENTS AND EXAMINATIONS:
Class participation
The course will be conducted using a combination of short lectures, class discussion and exercises. Classroom participation is vital—we are part of the material we will be studying. Mere attendance is not sufficient to receive credit. Your classroom participation grade will be a composite of your day-to-day engagement in class discussions, attendance, small group exercises, occasional written assignments related to discussion questions, and, more importantly, your contribution to the success of your classmates. Prepare to be fully engaged in class discussion. I will call on you and use other methods to keep you fully engaged. 
Weekly quiz
There will be a series of weekly open-book quizzes throughout the semester. You should complete the quiz before the beginning of each week.  Each quiz will be on the assigned reading for that week. The quizzes will have different formats to accommodate students’ various learning styles including true/false, multiple choice, and short essay. Each quiz is worth 10 points. All quizzes will be due on the day of the first class of the week by class time. 
Case analysis
The case study is a fundamental learning tool in organization assessment. The goal of the case analysis is to provide you with the opportunity to think comprehensively about organizations. 
Several cases have been selected for written analysis. These cases tell the story of a company facing a strategic dilemma and you should use them as a laboratory in which to experiment with the management tools we cover in class so that you can learn more about how, when, and where they might work in the real world. Case discussion classes are most effective and interesting when everybody comes prepared and participates in the exchange. Therefore, everyone MUST read the designated case prior to the class; everyone will play a specific role even if you are not presenting. 
Term Project
The term project is a semester-long assignment in which you will prepare a complete organization assessment for two organizations of your choice. The assignment involves substantial research about the organization, its industry and external environment. The successful completion of the `project requires drawing on the accumulated knowledge and skills from management, marketing, human resources management, finance, accounting, macro and microeconomics, statistics, operations, quantitative methods, and organizational behavior, as well as other gained knowledge and skills from your other courses.
Exam
There will be a midterm and a final exam during the semester. They will test and assess how you master the concepts and knowledge we covered during the class.



GRADING POLICY:

The final grade for each student will be calculated using the following “weighted/points” schedule.  


GRADING SYSTEM

92 – 100	= 	A	72 – 77.9 	=	C	
90 – 91.9 	= 	A-	70 – 71.9	= 	C-
88 – 89.9 	= 	B+	68 – 69.9	=	D+
82 – 87.9 	= 	B	62 – 67.9	=	D
80 – 81.9 	= 	B-	60 – 61.9	=	D-
78 – 79.9 	= 	C+	Below 60	=	F 

QUIZ DATES
Quiz (01) 	due on 08/28 	by class time	
Quiz (02) 	due on 09/11	by class time	
Quiz (03) 	due on 09/18	by class time	
Quiz (04) 	due on 09/25	by class time	
Quiz (05) 	due on 10/02	by class time	
Quiz (06) 	due on 10/09	by class time	
Quiz (07) 	due on 10/16	by class time	
Quiz (08) 	due on 10/23	by class time
Quiz (09) 	due on 10/30	by class time
Quiz (10) 	due on 11/06	by class time
Quiz (11) 	due on 11/13	by class time
Quiz (12) 	due on 11/20	by class time

No quiz retakes will be allowed (unless a doctor’s written excuse) so do these quizzes EARLY and do not wait until the last minute.


LATE PAPERS

Un-excused late papers and writing assignments will be penalized a full grade.  This means you must plan ahead! 


CLASS/SCHOOL POLICIES:
-  Class Preparation 
This course is intended to develop your skills as a professional business manager and leader, therefore preparation for class includes reading the assigned material before coming to class.  No manager would arrive at a meeting without having read the material to be discussed.  I will do whatever is necessary to initiate a discussion in class, this includes calling on people at random, so come prepared.  
-  Electronic Devices
Cell phones should be silenced during class; making or taking calls, texting or emailing is inappropriate during class. You may step out if you must take an urgent call.  Unless you are asked to use your laptop, please turn off the laptop and/or tablet before class begins.
- Class Attendance
Class attendance is fundamental to student engagement and involvement. Attendance is a student obligation and students are responsible for all the work of all class meetings. A student absent from class for any reason assumes responsibility for work that has been missed. It is the student’s responsibility to notify the instructor in advance, if possible, of an absence.  It is also the student’s responsibility to initiate communication with the instructor to determine what, if any, credit can be obtained for missed classes. Absence in class will likely impact a student’s ability to fulfill course requirements and therefore, the student’s final grade. Students are required, therefore, to attend at least 85% of the semester. 
- COVID attendance policy
Any student who is experiencing cold or flu-like symptoms should not attend class in-person. Students experiencing a fever over 100.4, cough, shortness of breath, or loss of taste and/or smell must stay away from in-person class and notify the Health Center immediately. An absence for which a student fails to provide an explanatory email will be counted as an absence under the instructor’s regular attendance policy.
-  Academic Dishonesty
Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated at USF or within this class.  Academic dishonesty refers to actions such as, but not limited to, cheating, plagiarism, fabricating research, falsifying academic documents, etc., and includes all situations where students make use of the work of others and claim such work as their own.  Students should be familiar with the process of notification, discipline, and sanctions as outlined in the USF Student Handbook/Manual for instances in which Academic dishonesty is suspected or confirmed, and should include knowledge of your rights as well as those of the faculty and university.
-  Disabilities
PLEASE NOTE:  Any student who feels s/he may need accommodation based on the impact of a learning, physical or psychiatric disability should contact the designated entity at USF privately to discuss your specific needs as early as possible in the semester. All conversations are confidential.  
-  Diversity & Inclusion
It is my intent that students from all diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course, that students' learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit. It is my intent to present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. Your suggestions are encouraged and appreciated. Please let me know ways to improve the effectiveness of the course for you personally or for other. 

COURSE SCHEDULE



* The instructor reserves the right to change the syllabus as necessary during the semester to ensure that the course objectives are met.


