




Welcome!
First and foremost, I hope you are all keeping healthy and safe in these challenging times. Beyond that, I want to welcome you to MAN 3240 and tell you how happy I am to share some time with you this semester.   Keeping up with course assignments will be a challenge, but, hopefully, well worth it as you gain information to make you a better manager in the workplace.

I know, for some of you, that this will be your first online course.  Don’t feel alone: it’s a 
relatively new teaching experience for me as well!    However, you won’t have to worry about driving to class in traffic, finding a parking place and—if you don’t feel like going to class at a specific time—having to be there.   Bottom line: I’m looking forward to taking advantage of this online learning option and ask you to join me in this exciting journey.  And, best of all, you can do it on your time, in your favorite space, snacking on your favorite food.  Bon Voyage!

University Course Description
The course covers research literature relevant to organizational functioning including behavioral effects of power and authority, formal organization, structural variation, leadership, motivation, and communication.

Course Prerequisites
MAN 3025 with a minimum grade of C.

Course Purpose 
The basic academic purpose of the course is to familiarize you with the “common body of knowledge” which is organizational behavior in this third decade of the 21st Century.  One semester on the topic will not make you an “organizational behavior expert” but, at least, you should be familiar with the basic concepts, “terminology,” theories and research findings that the course texts and online activities emphasize.  As your instructor, I like to emphasize the practical applications of what you are learning.  As a psychologist and business consultant I understand the importance of interpersonal effectiveness for personal and business success; thus, a second purpose of the course will be to help you more effectively manage your subordinates to increase their productivity and personal satisfaction in the workplace.

Instructor Contact Information and Communication 
I am very informal.  You may call me by my first name if you prefer; or, if you feel more comfortable using titles, then feel free to call me “Professor Karlins.” I am fine either way.  I have already provided you with my office hours and my email address.  Please feel free to contact me! That’s what I’m here for.  Please understand I enjoy talking with students, and even though this is not a face-to-face class, it shouldn’t limit our opportunity to interact (only the way we do it).  Also, be sure to check your email and canvas regularly (at least 3 times a week) for any course updates.  I will be making regular
announcements that I hope you will find helpful.


First Week Attendance Policy
University policy requires that we ascertain if students signed up for the course are actually taking it.  In a face-to-face class this is done by a roll call on the first day of class.  Online is a bit different.  In this course you will establish your attendance by participating in an introductory discussion board, which can be found in the Getting Started Module in Canvas.  Students who don’t complete this activity by the due date run the risk of being dropped from the course. Be sure to complete the first part of the discussion board by Thursday night, August 25, so you won’t be dropped from the course. 

How to Succeed in this Course
Generally, the majority of students in my class get a grade of “B” or better.  As in most things in life: the more work you put into this course, the better your grade will be. It is critical that you keep up with your assigned readings and assignments. Please contact me immediately if you have any problems or concerns.  Falling behind in online courses is one of the biggest stumbling blocks students face, particularly if they haven’t taken such courses in the past. 

Make sure you don’t fall into this trap!

Course Structure 
The course will be a learning experience designed around your textbook, reading assignments, my presentations, case studies, various audiovisual clips and a group project.  Because the course is asynchronous, it will be up to each student to do coursework on their own schedule, remembering, of course, that everyone will still be expected to meet various course deadlines as stated in the syllabus, various course assignments and/or canvas announcements.

Student Learning Outcomes 
By the conclusion of this course, students will be able to: 
Define key terms in the field of organizational behavior
Recognize and recall key concepts and theories in the field of organizational behavior
Analyze real-world business problems and develop thoughtful, practical solutions
Practice skills that will make you a more successful manager.
Produce a quality group presentation on a topic pertaining to organizational behavior.
	
Required Course Materials 
You will be required to obtain the following textbook for the course:
(1) Scandura, Terri.  Essentials of Organizational Behavior (3nd ed.)  Los Angeles: Sage, 2022.    Make sure it is the 3rd edition of the book.  This book will be available in the USF bookstore or on sale online.   Sage has an interactive eBook for $54 to rent as well.  Student resources (such as flashcards and quizzes, et.) for the text are free and may be found at https://edge.sagepub.com/scandura2e/student-resources-0 (Links to an external site.).  Other study help will be provided at the end of each assigned chapter.  

Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required


Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials 

 Karlins, M. Life Management: 2.0 (2nd edition), Kendall Hunt: 2021.  Available at www.kendallhunt.com or  www.Amazon.com (The author receives NO royalties from sales of this book!)  This book is optional, and you will not be tested on it in this course.  I now use this book in MAN 3025 and the strong positive feedback from students about the impact of the book on their lives leads me to mention it as a resource.

         
.  

Grading Scale 




Grade Categories and Weights

Here are the various point totals for the classroom activities you will be undertaking.  There are 1,000 possible points in the course (not counting the extra credit project).  Each project you undertake will specify the specific points it is worth.





There will be three multiple-choice examinations during the semester.  Each test will be 50 items in length, with each question counting as four points.  Thus, each exam will be worth 200 points.  All exams will be one hour in length and “open book” (you can refer to your notes and texts during the exam).  Once you start the test you cannot pause it; you will have one hour from the time you begin the test to complete it.  This is an individual exercise and students should not share information about the test either while it is being taken or after it is completed.  The tests will NOT be cumulative—text chapters and online activities covered on one test will not be examined on other tests.  Questions will cover chapters assigned in the text, plus cases/lectures/other activities that take place online.  For the three tests, approximately 80% of the questions will come from the Scandura text; the other 20% from online cases/lectures/activities.  

More information on each of these assignments can be found in the Modules section of your course shell in Canvas

Course Schedule


* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision

USF Standard University Policies 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx 

Course Policies: Grades 

Late Work Policy: Unless you have a valid reason (see “reasons for missing an exam” presented earlier in the syllabus), all graded work (and the extra credit project) not turned in on time will receive a grade of “0.” Thus, please be mindful of when your various tests and assignments are due.
Grades of "Incomplete":  The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. 

Course Policies: Student Expectations

Course Hero Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This applies to websites such as CourseHero.com – any use of these website (including uploading materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 

Sharing of any online materials provided by your instructor on Canvas: Much of the online material for the course is based on the published (or to-be-published) works of Professor Karlins, and are his intellectual property.  No part of the lectures (including the duplication of power point slides) may be given or sold to anyone (including websites that purchase such materials) or used outside of this course in any way without his written permission.  Any student caught violating this policy will receive a “double F” in the class.  Thank you for your cooperation in this matter.

End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued. 

Netiquette Guidelines: 
Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.  
Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read. 
Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for. 
Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  

Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:
Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about. 
Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor. 
Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.  

Course Technology & Student Support 

Academic Accommodations:
Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with Student Accessibility Services (formerly Students with Disabilities Services) to arrange appropriate accommodations.  Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.in order to receive academic accommodations. 
Academic Support Services:
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at- http://www.usf.edu/student-success/ 

Canvas Technical Support: 
Include information where students can find technical support. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.

Changes to the syllabus:

Although it is highly unlikely to happen, the course instructor reserves the right to change any part of this syllabus if he deems that circumstances warrant such change(s).

BEST WISHES FOR A GREAT SEMESTER!

