SYLLABUS
MAN 6289--Organizational Change/Development
MUMA College of Business
University of South Florida


Days: Mondays
Times: 6:30pm-10:15pm
Location: BSN 123
Instructor: Kim Johnson, Ph.D.
Office: CIS 2054B
Cell: (386) 569-0950 (please use for emergencies only—texting is preferred)
Email: kimj@usf.edu
Office Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays 11:30am-1:00pm or by appointment


Overview

At the completion of this class you should have attained an awareness of the importance of change in the growth of an organization, learned about some of the most utilized models of change along with factors influencing the selection of change strategy, and gained an understanding of the process by which change is best managed and the potential roadblocks to change. You should also have attained an understanding of the process of and the objectives of organizational development, as well as various types of interventions and the roles of change agents in effecting change. Additionally, insight into the role of power and politics in change should transpire along with both causes of and alleviations for stress during organizational change.


Lecture Materials Adopted From

Raina, R. (2019). Change Management and Organizational Development. 1st edition.  



Required Readings

Raina, R. (2019). Change Management and Organizational Development. 1st edition.  

Anderson, D.L. (2017) Cases and Exercises in Organization Development and Change.  2nd edition.  






Evaluation (% of total grade)






Grading Scale






Communication

All communication will take place via Canvas. It is your responsibility to check daily for communication from me. I will also check daily for communication from you, and you may expect a response within 24 hours. Email sent on the weekend may not receive a response until Monday, but this would be rare. If you do not hear from me within this timeframe, assume something went wrong and contact me again. I will never ignore communication from a student. I am available for office visits on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:30-1:00 in PCD 2109. I can also meet with you by appointment and am available after class as well. Please don’t hesitate to reach out to me if there is anything I can do to make your experience with the course more positive.








Submissions

All work will be submitted via Canvas. Please refer to the user guide to learn how to navigate Canvas (http://guides.instructure.com/m/8470).  Be sure to devote adequate time to completing and submitting your work to account for possible technical difficulties. Late work will not be excused due to computer issues or difficulties encountered with Canvas. If you have any problems with Canvas, contact technical support to resolve the issue. 


Late Submissions

All due dates will be posted on Canvas. Submissions received after the date and time indicated will be penalized 5% per 24-hour period or any fraction thereof.  As stated above, it is imperative that you leave yourself plenty of time to submit your work in case of difficulties. 






Evaluation Details



Class Attendance 

Your attendance is expected at all class meetings, and attendance will be taken at every class. You are allowed to miss one class without penalty. If you miss an additional class your grade will be lowered by 2 percentage points and I ask that you contact me by email or other method to assure me that your absences will not be a problem. If you miss a third class I ask that you contact me to arrange a meeting. If you know in advance that you will not be able to attend class, please inform me. You are responsible for all material you miss while absent. Please find a classroom “buddy” from whom you can get notes and information in the event that you need to miss a class.
In the event of any absence I require that you submit to me a 1-page summary of the topic covered in class the day you missed, as well as a 1- page reflection on the day’s readings (articles/case studies). You may email these to me or submit them as a hard copy. If I do not receive these documents, your grade will be lowered an additional 1 percent. It is your responsibility to get these to me; I will not ask you for them. 





Class Participation

You should arrive prepared for class--on time and ready to discuss all assigned readings. I understand that speaking out in class is not easy for everyone, but in order for you to get the most out of this course, you should be actively participating in all discussions. I may choose to call on you personally in class to answer specific questions or to give your input if I feel I am not hearing from you enough. Class participation accounts for 5% of your grade.




Case Study and Article Discussions 

Most weeks we will discuss at least one case study and/or article in class. Case studies will be assigned for you to read in advance of class. Links to the articles can be found in Canvas. These will be available at least two weeks in advance of the class for which they need to be read. Please come to class prepared to discuss the case study/studies and article(s) for that week, with questions, comments, and insights prepared. Additionally, please read about the Discussion Board explained below.





Discussion Board

When there is a case study or an article for discussion there will also be a Discussion Board open on Canvas. Here you are to post at least three questions, comments, or responses to your peers’ posts. At least one of your contributions must consist of a question. You must first post your question before you can reply to a peer or make a comment. You will be unable to view the other posts until you have posted your question. The Discussion Board constitutes 10% of your grade, based on completion only, not content. If there are multiple case studies or articles assigned for the week, you may choose which one upon which to pose your questions/comments, or you may discuss more than one. Discussion Board contributions are due before the start of class—by 6:29pm on Mondays.













Organizational Development Issue Paper

In order to indicate your understanding and appreciation of organizational development, each student must choose a current issue concerning organizational development and write an issue paper on that topic. The topic should be one that you find interesting, important, or concerning, and one into which you would like to delve deeper. The issue paper should be based on current academic and practitioner research, and should be written in lay terms so as to be understandable by the general population. A thorough literature review should be conducted on your topic and reliable references should be included. See Assignments in Canvas for the rubric outlining the details. This paper accounts for 20% of your grade.



Organizational Change Issue Paper

In order to indicate your understanding and appreciation of organizational change, each student must choose a current issue concerning organizational change and write an issue paper on that topic. The topic should be one that you find interesting, important, or concerning, and one into which you would like to delve deeper. The issue paper should be based on current academic and practitioner research, and should be written in lay terms so as to be understandable by the general population. A thorough literature review should be conducted on your topic and reliable references should be included. See Assignments in Canvas for the rubric outlining the details. This paper accounts for 20% of your grade.

Issue papers should be:


submitted through Canvas
3000-3500 words each (approximately 10 pages)
MS-Word
Calibri, 11 point, double-spaced, 1” margins on all sides
thoroughly edited for grammar, spelling, and punctuation, as well as the “flow” of the wording. You may want to have a peer read your paper before you submit it, as fresh eyes can be helpful in spotting grammatical errors or sentences/passages that are awkwardly worded. While the paper should be your own work, it is fine to get help with editing.








Team Project Report and Presentation

Students will form teams of five to complete a group presentation. You may choose your own teams. This project will be an in-depth, semester-long endeavor, consisting of both a written component and a presentation component. The paper will be submitted through Canvas and the presentation will be recorded and also submitted via Canvas.


Project Details:

Your team should choose an organization and thoroughly discuss organizational change in that organization. You can choose a change that is imminent, or you can evaluate a change that has occurred in the near past and of  which the organization is still feeling the effects.

If you are analyzing the change that has occurred: Provide a comprehensive examination of the impact and influence of change within the organization. How has the change that has transpired in that organization affected the development of the organization? What outcomes have occurred? Has there been any resistance, conflict, or stress during the process? How were these issues surmounted? Discuss any notable leaders or change agents and their impact on the process and outcomes of the organizational change. What could have been done before, during, and after the change to make the transition and acceptance of change smoother?

If you are analyzing an imminent change, evaluate the change, why it is taking place, the organizational necessity, and the manner in which the change is taking place. How will the change affect the development of the organization? What outcomes are expected? Are you expecting any resistance, conflict, or stress during the process? How can these issues be surmounted? Discuss any notable leaders or change agents and their possible impact on the process and outcomes of the organizational change. What can be done before, during, and after the change to make the transition and acceptance of change smoother?

Additionally, assess how the organization should best move forward to use the organizational change to maximize beneficial impact and minimize detrimental effects. 

Students are expected to meet outside of class on a regular basis to facilitate the development of this project. Electronic meetings/communications are useful, but there should also be in-person work sessions, not simply individual contributions being patched together to create a finished product. Everyone should contribute toward both the written paper and the presentation in a collaborative effort. All teams will meet briefly with me twice over the course of the semester to discuss your progress, and I am available to you for further meetings outside of class as well should you require it.





The written paper should be:

submitted via Canvas
6000-7000 words (approximately 20 pages)
MS-Word
Calibri, 11 point, double-spaced, 1” margins on all sides
thoroughly edited for grammar, spelling, and punctuation, as well as the “flow” of the wording. All team members should review the document in its finished form for approval before submission. 
free from any plagiarism. All submissions will be evaluated for plagiarism through Turnitin. Any evidence of plagiarism will result in a 0 for the paper or an F for the course depending on the severity. 


The presentation should be:

recorded and submitted through Canvas
in PowerPoint format
20 minutes long
inclusive of contributions from all members of the group. Everyone should work on the slides in a collaborative effort and everyone should speak an equal amount.
composed of the highlights of the written paper
delivered in a poised, polished, and confident manner. This will require extensive preparation and practice as a group. No notes should be used in delivery, but neither should the oral delivery be presented in a rote or “memorized” fashion. I am not going to say that you cannot edit your recorded presentation, but if you do so, it should be smooth to the point that the edits are not apparent. Each individual’s speaking part should be continuous—without edits. 



Peer Evaluation

Each member of every group will complete an evaluation of each of their team members. These reports will be anonymous. Completing an assessment of your teammates is worth 2.5% of your grade and the combined assessment of your team mates accounts for another 2.5% of your grade. 



Group Issues

Please make your best attempt to work well with your team and resolve all issues together. In almost any career path you choose to take, you will at times be required to work as part of a team. It is worthwhile to develop the skills necessary to work with others. If you absolutely cannot make things work, please come and talk to me. I will ask that each team create a contract containing all deliverables and expectations and that each member of your team sign it. 

Team Contract

Before any work is begun, it is necessary for the members of the team to come together and have an open and comprehensive discussion about the behaviors, expectations, and responsibilities for which each member will be accountable. A document needs to be created to reflect this understanding. The following guidelines should be followed during this process:

1. All group members should be involved. It is not appropriate for one team member to create the contract and the others sign it, as this fails to create buy-in and may not reflect the thinking of all team members.

2. It can be difficult and sometimes clumsy to attempt to involve all team members in writing a document; there can be the tendency for some to sit back while others move to the forefront. Yet it is vital to include the input of each member of the group. It can help to have team members take turns writing on a board or go around in a circle and give everyone a chance to share their ideas and opinions. 

3. Each member of the team should sign the contract. Everyone should have a copy.

4. The contract should be revisited as needed.

5. Use of the SMART goals can be helpful (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, timely). Team members should work together to create goals and deliverables for the team as a whole and for the individual team members. Ideally, each person will have a clear understanding of what is expected of him or her and of what is expected of his or her teammates, and each person will feel that his or her part is fair. 

6. Your team contract should at a minimum contain procedures for: (1) attendance and participation in team meetings and (2) a method or procedure for dealing with violations of established rules.










Academic Integrity and Behavior

All students are required to adhere to the highest standards of academic integrity and behavior and must satisfy the USF Academic Integrity Policy (http://www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/1112/pdf/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf) and Student Code of Conduct (http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf6.0021.pdf). It is the student’s responsibility to read, understand and abide by these policies. 



University Policy on Academic Dishonesty

Everyone is expected to earn his or her degree based on personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule. Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course-graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, may not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with another student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one’s own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating research papers, creative papers, speeches, tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one’s own. 

The University of South Florida, via the myUSF CANVAS system, has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service (Turnitin), which allows students and instructors to submit assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Exams will be checked using the Turnitin automated plagiarism detection system. Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It includes submitting an assignment purported to be the student’s original work which has wholly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of the work, ideas, representations, or words of another person without customary and proper acknowledgment of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarification in any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue, and will have plagiarized in any situation in which their work is not properly documented. For more information regarding plagiarism go to: http://www.grad.usf.edu/plagiarism.php and http://www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0102/adadap.htm. Additional information from Turnitin on the use of their system is described in their manuals at: http://turnitin.com/en_us/training/student-training/submitting-a-paper. For information in avoiding plagiarism and citing properly visit http://www/lib.usf.edu/guides/avo. 
University Statement on Delivery of Instructions in Event of Emergency
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Illuminate, Skype, and email messaging and/or alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas site for each class for specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information. 

Statement Requested from Students with Disabilities Services
“Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the office of Students with Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.”

University Policy on Religious Observances
“No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. In accordance with the University policy on observance of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.”





































Class Schedule



