1  MAN  6055  Organizational Behavior 
and Leadership  
Fall 2023  
Muma College of Business, Information Systems and  
Decision Sciences Department  
  
    
  COURSE SYLLABUS  
Instructor:  Dr. Michael Donahue   Email:  donahuem@ usf.edu    
Term:  Fall 2023 Dates:  August 21  – November 
9, 2023  
Delivery 
Method:  Online through CANVAS   Location:  100% Online  
Minimum   
Technical  
Skills &  
Requirements:   To take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate 
proficiency in basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and  
meet the computer system requirements listed here:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative‐
education/resources/studen tservices/technical‐requirements.aspx   
Virtual Office 
Hours:   MS Teams Preferred – Email to arrange a day and time  
 
1.  Welcome:   
Welcome to MAN 6055 for Fall 2023!   I am excited to meet everyone and spend the next 
couple of months together to learn, evaluate, and apply leadership princi ples, 
organizational behavior, and company culture in your academic journey.   This course 
focuses on two core business components:   leadership  and company culture,  two critical 
aspects that drive an organization ’s behavior.   You can expect to be come better equipped 
to leverage the strengths of others and understand why people act, and apply different 
leadership principles in business, government, and public service.   In addition, you will be 
able to critique your leadership style, values, and emo tions.   Finally, the course will help 
you employ empathetic skills to motivate others better and contribute to positive company 
culture across any work and global business environment.     
2. University Course Description   
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study of goals and 
means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general  (3 credit 
hours).   
 
2  3.  Course Prerequisites  
None   
 
4.  Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
1.  Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of tradition al and 
modern  leadership  styles.   
2.  Apply concepts, and self-evaluate your leadership attributes and style .  
3.  Analyze issues of company culture and contributions to organizational behavior . 
4.  Evaluate how leadership and culture directly impact  an organization . 
  
5.  Instructor Contact Information and Communication   
Email me through CANVAS or my USF email  (donahuem@usf.edu ); I typically check each 
daily and respond within 24 hours.    
  
Course Netiquette.  Keep these in mind during our course  interaction .   
 a.   Identify y ourself clearly  
b. Include a salu tation, subject line , and signature for all email communication  
c. Acknowledge and return messages   
d. Be concise  
   
6.  First -Week Attendance Policy   
First -week attendance is generally through the ‘Introductions ’ discussion board .  Students 
who do not complete this first‐week activity by the due date r isk being dropped . 
  
7.  How to Succeed in this Course  
• Demonstrate respect for your classmates.   You should consider this course becaus e 
experimenting with new ways of acting and thinking is encouraged and respected.  
• Not to engage in unethical behaviors, such as cheating or plagiarism on tests or 
written assignments.   Asking for a grade will be considered unethical behavior.   
• Keep in mind the following three caveats  to succeed in this course: (1) read and 
watch the assigned reading materials; (2) participate and submit timely course 
requirements; (3) review materials to understand the course concepts ; 4) have fun!   
  
8.  Course Structure   
This course has seven  modules  (5) two week s and (2) one week  totaling twelve weeks  
with a combination of various assignments.  You will have a series of Discussion Boards, 
Short Essay Responses, Chapter Assessments  (course books) , and an Infographic project ; 
the course book s are widely available through the USF booksto re or online.   
  3  9.  Required  Course Materials   
1)  Course Book s:  widely available for purchase /rent online or through the 
bookstore  
1) “I Have the Watch: becoming a leader worth following ” paperback, May 
20, 2019, by Jon S . Rennie.   (ISBN 978 -1099487095)  
2)  “Own Your Culture ” paperback, Sep 2020, by Bretton Putter  (ISBN 978 -1-
5272 -1673 -0) 
 
  Grading 
Scale   
      
Grading 
Scale    
A+  97‐
100  Exceptional work  
A  93‐
97    
Superior work  
A‐  90‐
93  
B+  87‐
89    
  
Above average work  B  83‐
87  
B‐  80‐
83  
C+  77‐
79    
Average work  
C  70‐
77  
D  60‐
69  Below average work  
F  <60  Fail  
  
  
 Grade Categories and Weights  
  
Assignment   Percent of Final Grade  
4  Assignments   20% 
Discussion Boards   20% 
  Chapter (Book ) Assessment s  30% 
Short Essay s   30% 
 Total  100% 
  
 Assignments  
Each Module Overview on CANVAS outlines the weekly due outs .  On average , you have 
one assignment submission each week.  Please review the CANVAS pages and the 
“Getting Started” Section for a breakout of all the Modules .  
 
Module 1:   What Makes a Great Leader …Great?  
Module 2:  Leadership Perspectives: Government, Business, and Public Ser vice 
Mod ule 3:   Effectively Leading Employees  
Module 4:   Company Culture and Rennie Boo k Part I Assessment  
Modu le 5:   Shaping Company Culture and Putter Book Part I Assessment  
Module 6:   Part II Book Assessments and Generational Essay Research  
Module 7 :  Wrapping up the C ourse  
  
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
I usually provide feedback and grades within 48 hours after the due date .  Online 
Assessment s are graded automatically by CANVAS, and the score appears after 
submission.  You can access your scores using “Grades ” in Canvas.  
  
 Course Schedule  
Please review the CANVAS page that outlines our entire course.    
  
 USF Standard University Policies   
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF.   These may  be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core‐syllabus‐policy‐statements.aspx    
  
 Course Policies: Grades   
  
Late Work Policy :   
Up to 24 hours late – You can earn up to 75% of the total for the missed work.  
5  25‐48 hours late ‐ You can earn up to 50% of the total for the missed work.  
>48 hours late – You can earn up to 25% of the total for the missed work.  
  
Grades of “Incomplete ”:  
For USF Tampa graduate courses and USFSP undergraduate and graduate courses:  An 
Incomplete grade ( “I”) is exceptional and granted at the instructor ’s discretion only 
when students cannot complete course requirements due to illness  or other 
circumstances beyond their control.   The course instructor and student must complete 
and sig n the “I” Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the 
date it is due, and the grade the student would earn , factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments.   The due date can be negotiated and extended by the 
student/instructor as l ong as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate 
courses .  One semester for graduate courses from the original date grades was  due for 
that course.   An “I” grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate and 
one semester for graduate courses (including the summer semester) will revert to the 
grade noted on the contract.   
  
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
  
Course Hero Policy:    
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheat ing, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose.   This 
does apply specifically to CourseHero.com – any use of this website (including 
uploading materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.   
  
Turnitin.com:    
  In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized.   Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student ’s assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with eac h submission.   Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
both hard copy and electronic format.   After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author ’s work was  
used in the assignment.   For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .   
  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:    
Example: All classes at USF use an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course.   These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens.   
Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.   
  
Netiquette Guidelines:   
6  1. Act professionally in the way you communicate.   Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect the same way you would do in a face‐to‐face environment.   Respect 
other people ’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points 
you may disagree wi th.    
2. Be sensitive.   Be respectful and discreet  when sharing your ideas and opinions.   
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs , or other general differences.    
3. Proofread and check the spelling.   Doing this before sending an email or posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful.   Avoid using  all capital letters ; it can be perceived as if you are shouting, 
and it is more difficult to read.   
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic.   Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject.   By keeping the message on the focus , you allow the readers to 
get your idea or answers they are looking for easily .   
5. Be clear with your message.   Avoid using humor or sarcasm.   Since people can ’t see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.    
 
 Course Technology & Student Support   
  
Canvas Technical Support:   
Include information where students can find technical support.   
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can access  the canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help ” page on the homepage of your canvas course.   You 
can also cont act the help desk by calling 813‐974‐1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu .  
  
 Important Dates to Remember  
  
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
