10/14/23, 9:51 PM Practice Center Projects: ORG04655 : MS-BAIS Current Students
https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1794296/pages/practice-center-projects?module_item_id=28098689 1/1Practice Center Projects
What is a Practice Center Project?
Practice Center Projects (PCP) are corporate projects of a predefined scope that recruit two students
to work collaboratively on one project aided by a corporate sponsor and a BAIS professor . This is a
paid engagement, and if selected, you will be paid for up to 20 hours/week by the corporate
employer .
 
How is PCP  different from CPT internship?
1. Internship is an individual project and an arrangement between you and the employer . PCP  is a
collaborative project, involving two students and one professor , and is an arrangement between the
School of Information Systems and Management (SISM), that of fers the BAIS degree, and the
employer . The employer pays SISM and SISM pays you for your work.
2. In internships, you are working alone, but in a PCP , you are working with another student and you
are helped by a professor .
3. Another dif ference between PCP  and CPT  internship is that you must complete one academic year
of study to qualify for CPT  internship, but you can get a PCP  in your first year . Whether you are
selected depends on what skill set the corporate employer is looking for and whether that fits with
your skill set.
However , like internships, PCP  also spans one semester (typically Fall or Spring, but not summer).
 
How can you sign up for PCP?
Unlike internships, where you have to get your own internship, PCP  is arranged by SISM. Corporate
employers approach SISM with their projects every semester . Anna sends out e-mails to students
indicating these projects usually before the start of Fall and Spring semesters. You can send in your
resumes to Anna, indicating which PCPs you are interest it. The corporate sponsor will review all
resumes and shortlist candidates for interview . Following your interviews, candidates will be notified
of their interview results. Make sure that you are on Anna's e-mail list to receive these PCP  e-mails.