 
QMB-3200 (001, 002, 099, 901)
Business Statistics II – Fall 2022
 
Instructor:	         Kim Johnson, Ph.D.  
E-mail:	              kimj@usf.edu 
Office: 	              CIS 2054B 
Office Hours:    Tuesdays & Thursdays 11:00am-12:00pm
                          


PREREQUISITES: MAC 2233 / MAC 2241, QMB 2100. 
STA 2023 can serve as equivalent to QMB 2100. 
Students should have earned a “C” grade or better (and not C-) in QMB 2100 or STA 2023.


COURSE DESCRIPTION: This is a Core course for all Business Majors.

Catalog Description of the course: Simple linear regression and correlation, multiple regression and model building, forecasting models, analysis of variance, chi-square tests, nonparametric methods.

Purpose of the course: QMB 3200 is the second course in Statistics. It builds upon the foundation established in your first course in Statistics (QMB 2100 or its equivalent). The purpose of QMB 3200 is to prepare students to appreciate the role statistics plays in business analytics and decision making. In particular, the course emphasizes and prepares students to “learn”, “interpret”, and “be ready to apply” the concepts and methods, rather than learn calculations alone.


COURSE OBJECTIVES:  Through this course, students would develop a working knowledge and expertise on how to apply statistical methods on business problems. In particular, students will be able to:
Strengthen fundamentals, formulate hypothesis from the problem statement, and learn to perform analyses, 
Interpret statistical results generated from a selected software program and communicate the findings in simple terms to the decision-maker. 
Identify opportunities for and learn to apply statistical tests on Categorical data such as  contingency analysis and goodness of fit tests
Explain the basis and apply Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) techniques on data from experiments/observational studies in business
Identify application opportunities and learn to perform simple linear and multiple regression analyses, extract valuable information, and apply the results for predictions and improved business decision-making
Analyze Time-series patterns and learn to apply forecasting methods for various business applications



COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES:  At the conclusion of the course students should be able to:
Develop a hypothesis from a problem statement, choose an appropriate statistical technique to apply given the problem context, perform the analysis; and most importantly, interpret the reports/results, and develop well-reasoned and evidence-based conclusions
Learn to perform hypotheses tests on categorical data using Chi-Square goodness of fit tests and tests of independence Understand the principles of designed experimentation, identify an appropriate experimental design to perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) on data from experimental/observational studies; develop hypothesis statements, perform the analysis, understand, and interpret ANOVA output from a select software; and develop conclusions
Develop both simple and multiple regression models from given data, understand and interpret regression analysis output from a select software package, test hypotheses and infer relationships between variables, and make predictions on response.
Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series data, select appropriate forecasting techniques given the pattern, develop forecasts and forecast accuracy measures to identify the best forecasting method



TOPICS TO BE COVERED:
Review of Concepts and Topics (Probability Distributions, Estimation, and Hypothesis Testing) from QMB 2100 that are important for QMB 3200
Categorical Data Analysis – Chi-square Tests
Analysis of Variance
Simple Linear Regression
Multiple Regression
Time Series Analysis and Forecasting



MATERIALS 
(Required) Statistics for Business & Economics (13th or later edition), Pearson Education, McClave, Benson, and Sincich. Copies of this text are available for purchase at the USF Bookstore and other retailers. Both a hard copy and an electronic version are available. 

(Required) STATISTIX 10.0 This software can be purchased for Windows only. It is also available for free using the apps.usf.edu gateway (Mac or Windows). It is highly recommended that you purchase and install this software on your laptop or one that is available to you. Application Gateway can be problematic, and students are responsible for having reliable access to the STATISTIX program. Issues relating to the Application Gateway should be directed to USF Information Technology (https://www.usf.edu/it/), NOT THE INSTRUCTOR OR THE TAs. 

(Recommended) Pro-Copy Packet A spiral-bound course packet is available for purchase from Pro-Copy located at 5219 E. Fowler Avenue, Tampa, FL 33617. This packet includes course notes, practice exam questions, and more. Historically, students have found the Pro-Copy packet extremely useful. 
 
Student Data Set – each student is required to collect and enter into an Excel spreadsheet a data set consisting of 75 used automobiles, 25 each from three different models of vehicles of your choice (for example, Toyota Camry, Honda Accord, and Nissan Altima). For each vehicle, you will enter the asking price, the number of miles, whether it was made in the year 2015or earlier (enter as 0) or 2016 or later (enter as 1), and the vehicle model (label as 1, 2, or 3). When entering the asking price and mileage, please use numbers only without dollar signs or commas (which would interfere when we import the data into STATISTIX). Information regarding the requirements for the Student Data Set will be posted to the Resources module in Canvas. You will receive more instruction regarding this data set during the first week of class and will begin collecting your data then; you do not need to have this data already collected at the start of class.


COURSE POLICIES 

Format
This is a “live” class and you are expected to be present for class meetings. A weekly Module will be published by 8:00am every Monday morning. This Module will outline the expectations for the week regarding required reading, quizzes, exams, and homework assignments. 

Attendance  
While attendance is not technically required, it is highly encouraged. There will be unscheduled in-class assignments that will account for 5% of your grade and can only be completed if you are present in class. First Day Attendance will take place in the form of a Syllabus Quiz (for no grade) that will be present in Module 1. Students who do not complete this quiz by the end of first day of class will be dropped from the course.

Document Signatures
If at any time during the semester you require the instructor’s signature on a document, you will need to submit the document virtually via DocuSign (look under the Business Systems tab on the MyUSF homepage) or bring a paper copy either before/after class or during my office hours.

Communication
I will communicate with you via Canvas messaging and announcements. It is important that you check Canvas on at least a daily basis. If you don’t read the announcements, you will very likely miss important information!

When you have a question, please first refer to the syllabus and the announcements; often we get questions that were just discussed in an announcement. If your question is still unanswered, send a message through Canvas addressed to your TAs. If they are unable to help you, they will refer you to me. 

Office Hours
Please feel free to come to see me in my office between 11:00am and 12:00pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays. These times are set aside specifically for students, and I am happy to meet with you to discuss anything at all. I may also be available outside of those hours by appointment. I do not meet with students via TEAMS except for under extreme circumstances. 

Late Work
Project submissions are accepted up to three days after the due date at a penalty of 10% per day; no assignments will be accepted after this point. Exams can only be made up with a doctor’s note or other documentation provided within 24 hours of the exam date. If you are aware in advance that will need to miss an exam and have a valid excuse, contact your TA ahead of time. We are much more likely to allow you to take an exam in advance than we are to allow you to make up an exam you have already missed. I reserve the right to assess a penalty for an exam makeup, makeup exams will not necessarily be in the same format as the standard exam, and ALL makeup exams will be taken in my office during my office hours. In-class assignments and quizzes cannot be made up for any reason (instead of providing makeup quizzes I allow the two lowest quiz grades to be dropped). 

Cheating The policy for this course for students caught cheating is as follows: At minimum, the student will receive a 0 on the relevant assignment and be prevented from dropping the course. Zeros given for academic integrity violations cannot be dropped. At a maximum, the student will receive an FF course grade and the case will be turned over to USF for further action. (See USF Regulation-3.026, Academic Integrity of Students and last page of syllabus). Falsifying documents (e.g., excuse letters, doctor’s notes, etc.) will be treated as cheating. Assisting another student with quizzes or exams or sharing your work with other students for them to submit as their own constitutes cheating. It is YOUR responsibility to safeguard your work and not allow others to access it. THERE ARE NO EXCEPTIONS TO THIS POLICY!

Extra Credit and Grade Adjustment

There will be no extra credit or curving of grades unless the final course average is below 75%, in which case points will be added to each student’s score until the course average is 75%. I round final course grades up or down to the nearest whole number (89.4 becomes 89; 89.5 becomes 90). 

 
ASSIGNMENTS

There will be 7 Quizzes, 3 Project Submissions, and 4 Exams. The due dates and times of these assignments will be found in the Course Schedule. Any changes will be noted in a Canvas announcement, so make sure to check for course announcements daily. In addition to these scheduled assignments there will be sporadic in-class assignments which will be unannounced. 

In-Class Assignments
There will be the occasional unannounced in-class assignment which will be graded for completion only. If you are present in class that day, you will receive credit for the in-class assignment. These assignments will in total account for 5% of your grade. These assignments cannot be made up if you are absent.

Quizzes
There will be 7 Quizzes. Your two lowest quiz grades will be dropped, so if you miss a quiz for any reason, that will be one of your drops; quizzes cannot be made up. Quizzes are worth 16 points each and in total will account for 20% of your grade (4% each). They consist of 5 multiple choice and true/false items, are open book, and you have 30 minutes to complete them. Quizzes will open on Monday morning at 8:00am and close on Friday afternoon at 5:00pm, and you may take your quiz at any time during this period. Make sure to mark your calendars so you don’t forget to take your quizzes! 

Project
You are required to complete a Course Project that will consist of 3 separate Project Submissions. The Project involves creating your own data set, using the Statistix 10 software to run analyses on your data, and interpreting the output. The Project Submissions are worth 30% of your final grade. The entire Project must be submitted; no dropped Project grades are allowed. Late Project Submissions are allowed at a 10% penalty per day or portion of a day it is late for up to three days after the due date. It is highly recommended that you do not wait until the last minute to complete your Project Submissions! These assignments must be typed and submitted as a single .doc or docx.; NO OTHER TYPES OF FILES WILL BE ACCEPTED. These assignments will be submitted via Turnitin to assess for plagiarism.  It is your responsibility to make sure that you SUBMIT THE CORRECT FILE. If you submit an incorrect, incomplete, or unreadable file you MAY possibly be given the opportunity to re-submit (at the TAs’ discretion), but you will be penalized 25%, no exceptions. Check the document you are submitting to make sure it is the correct one!

Exams
There will be four exams, and your lowest exam grade will be dropped. Exams are worth 60 points (15%) each for a total of 45% of your total grade. If you know you’ll need to miss an exam, reach out to your TAs IN ADVANCE and we MAY allow you to take the exam early. If you miss an exam, have an excuse that your TA or the instructor finds acceptable, and can document the reason for missing the exam, a makeup can be arranged. Except for extraordinary circumstances (for example, you are in a coma) you must reach out to a TA or the instructor WITHIN 24 HOURS AFTER THE SCHEDULED TIME OF THE EXAM. If you do not do so you will not be given a makeup. Makeup exams are no more difficult than the standard exams but they will likely be in a different format, and will be given in my office during office hours, no exceptions. All exams (except makeups) are posted to Canvas and taken virtually; you do not need to come to class on exam days. Exams are taken during your regularly scheduled class period and are open-book/open-note (ONLY the textbook, the ProCopy Notes, the lecture slides and other resources posted to Canvas, and any notes you have taken are allowed, NOT other people or the internet). There is no “final” exam for this class, only four non-cumulative exams, each counting the same amount. 

Bellini Certification Program
The Bellini Certification Program is designed to increase your internships and post-graduation job placement in roles graduates want, with employers they want to work for. Given the importance of student career success, Program elements are incorporated into curriculum in four Levels, beginning Fall semester, 2023. Students will also be guided by a team of advisors who help them chart their course and gain the skill set and internships they need to achieve their goals.
Starting with the Introduction to Bellini Center and Certification Program, you will engage with the content in Canvas. You’ll also see an Introduction to Level 3, which explains the purpose and content of the activities, and a Canvas page with an estimated time for completion for each step. As you progress through each activity and assignment you will see an introduction and brief instructions for their completion. If you have questions about the Certification Program please use this link to support resources and individual support as needed.
You may wonder why professional development content is included as part of a Stats II course, and that’s a logical question. The Dean of the Muma College of Business has directed that Program content be incorporated into required curriculum and QMB 3200 is generally taken in the third year. We believe you will find that the Program content and activities will be beneficial to your professional and career development and encourage you to engage deeply with the content in Canvas, and the Bellini Program.
Grading of this work is on a completion basis only, and constitutes 3% of your grade.

Attendance
Regular class attendance is critically important for success in this class. Attendance will be taken periodically and will account for 2% of your final grade. 




Grading

A total of 400 points can be earned in this course (20 for in-class assignments, 80 for the top five quizzes, 110 for the three project submissions, and 180 points for the top three exams). To obtain your percentage grade, just divide your total points earned by 400. Grades will be assigned as follows: 
 
 

 


USF GUIDELINES AND POLICIES 
 
University Policy On Academic Dishonesty Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis of personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule. More information about the policies regarding academic dishonesty can be obtained from http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf 
 
Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course-graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, speeches, etc.; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own. 
 

University Statement on Delivery of Instruction in event of Emergency In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: CANVAS, Elluminate, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor CANVAS site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information. 
 
Final Examinations Policy All final examinations are to be scheduled in accordance with the University's final examination policy. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf 
 
General Attendance Policy Information about the general attendance policy at USF may be obtained from the following link: http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAttendance.pdf 
 
Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days “No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. In accordance with the University policy on observance of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.” Students must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at the beginning of the term. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf 

Disruption of the Academic Process Information about this policy may be obtained from the following link: 
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf 
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures Information about the policies regarding student academic grievance procedures may be obtained from the following link: http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf 
 
Students with Disabilities Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request. Contact SDS at 813-974-4309 or www.sds.usf.edu 
 
Grades of “incomplete” The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course. Incomplete grades are given only in extreme situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a student from completing the course and the remaining work can be completed in the next semester. Your instructor is the final authority on whether you qualify for an incomplete. Incomplete work must be finished by the end of the subsequent semester. If work is not finished by this deadline university policy is that the “I” automatically reverts to an “F”. 
 
Sexual misconduct/sexual harassment USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004). The USF Center for Victim is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974-5757. 



