   ISM 6328  
Information Security and IT Risk 
Management  
Credit Hours: 3  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Semester  : Summer  2023 
Class meetings  : This is an Online  asynchronous course.  
Instructor  : Federico Giovannetti  
Contact  : fgiovannetti@usf.edu  
Office number  : N/A, please email me . 
Office   : N/A 
Office  Hours  : By appointment  – in MS Teams   
Teaching asst  : TBA 
TA office hours  : By appointment  – in MS Teams  
University Course Description:  
Introduction of frameworks to assess IT risk and implement IT general controls; development of 
technical skills to secure computer networks.  
Course Prerequisites:  
None.  
Readings and Resources:  
Textbook (requir ed): Title: Fundamentals of Information Systems Security, Fourth  Edition, David Kim; 
Michael G. Solomon , Paperback: ISBN: 9781284251333 , eBook: ISBN: 9781284244571  (includes access 
to virtual labs).  
Supplementary readings  and resources : Will be provided on  Canvas.  
Course Background, Purpose , and Objectives : 
Cyber -attacks cost the global economy $445 billion annually and affect a variety of domains such as 
healthcare, government, academia , and industry. Recent years have  seen an unfortunate and disruptive 
growth in the number of cyber -attacks.  To stem this grand societal issue, there are increasing  calls for 
well-trained cybersecurity professionals , with an estimated 3.5 million cybersecurity job openings by 
2021 . Despite th is high demand, there is currently a severe shortage of qualified candidates. Specifically, 
individuals lack technical skills such as planning/implementing/upgrading/monitoring emerging 
technologies, incident response, security controls, and basic systems administration. Moreover, 
candidates often lack the non -technical skills of researching and reading new technologies, regulatory 
compliance, internal security policies, standards, and procedures. This hands -on, introductory , graduate -
level course, backwards engi neered wit h DHS/NSA key knowledge unit requirements for maintaining the 
Center for Academic Excellence  for Cyber Defense  (CAE -CD) at USF , aims to  alleviate these concerns and 
help students be prepared to become competitive candidates in the field by :  
1. Introducing  the importance of information security a nd related business concerns  
 Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
2 2. Providing key definitions and termin ology for information security  
3. Making  students aware of the major categories of information security threats  
4. Making  students aware of the commo n informat ion security controls  
5. Enabling  students to implement the basi c information security controls  
6. Introducing  students to the important legal provisions  regarding information security  
7. Making  students aware of the methodological implications for INFOSEC  arising from these legal 
provisions  
8. Providing  students with an understanding of the standard methodologies for complying with legal 
requi rements for IT general controls  
9. Providing  basic understanding of IT r isk management in organizations  
10. Developing valuable skills (e.g., critical thinking) currently in demand for cybersecurity professionals  
Upon completion of this course, students will have a strong enough foundation to pursue advanced 
studies (with additional work, of course!) to attain popular cybersecurity certifications such as Certified 
Ethical Hacker (CEH), Certified Information Security Manager (CISM), Security+, Certified Information 
Systems Security Professional (CISSP), and SANS GIAC Security Essentials (GSEC). Specifically, stud ents 
will:  
1. Demonstrate an understanding of security conce rns and issues in organizations . 
2. Learn how to identify and characterize assets relevant to cyber security . 
3. Have the ability to identify major categories of information security threats . 
4. Have the abilit y to apply various kinds of controls to counter common threats . 
5. Learn about important compliance requirem ents related to cybersecurity . 
6. Have the ability to provide  solutions to mitigate IT risks . 
Requirements:  
Technical:  Full-time access to a personal compute r (Mac or PC is fine) . We also assume that you have a 
technical background before entering this course (as per the requirements for the MS in Cybersecurity 
program). This includes basic systems administration, shell scripting, and knowledge about computer 
networking.  
Non -technical  (more important!) : Capability, aspiration, and positive attitude for learning. Strong work 
ethic. Interest in information security ; it’s a hands -on, contact sport!   
Course Workload Expectations:  
Any university course requires a large amount of work outside of lecture. This c ourse is structu red 
around 8 weeks. Given this  condensed  time-frame, you should expect a heavier than normal workload. 
This is a fast-paced  course! We assume you will allocate an average of at least 10 – 15 hours per week 
for study,  quizzes , and lab work. It is your responsibility to manage your workload.  If you procrastinate, 
you may find that you do not have enough time,  or that a technology problem is prevent ing you from 
completing your submissions on time. Note that technology problems (such as computer or network 
failures) will not be accepted as acceptable excuses.   Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
3  
Course Schedule:  
Week  Required Readings  Assessments ** Lab or Assignment** 
1 Syllabus  
Chapter   1: Information Systems Security  Quiz  1  (ch 1)  Exploring the Seven 
Domains of a Typical IT 
Infrastructure  
2 Chapter 3: Risks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities  
Chapter 4: Business Drivers of Information 
Security  
 Quiz  3  (ch 3) 
Quiz  4  (ch 4) Performing a Vulnerability 
Assessment  
3 Chapter 5: Networks and C ommunications  
Chapter 6: Access Controls  Quiz  5  (ch 5) 
Quiz  6  (ch 6) 
 Performing Packet Capture 
and Traffic Analysis  
4 Chapter 7: Cryptography  
Chapter 8: Malicious Software and Attack 
Vectors  Quiz  7  (ch 7)  
Quiz  8  (ch 8) 
  Assessing Common Attack 
Vectors  
5 Chapter 9: Security Operations and 
Administration  
Chapter 10: Auditing, Testing, and Monitoring  Quiz  9   (ch 9) 
Quiz  10 (ch 10) 
 Implementing an IT Security 
Policy  
6 Chapter 11: Contingency Planning  
Chapter 12: Digital Forensics   Quiz  11 (ch 11)  
Quiz  12 (ch 12)  Performing Incident 
Response and Forensic 
Analysis  
7 Chapter 13: Information Security Standards  
Chapter 14: Information Security 
Certifications  
 Quiz 13  (ch 13)  
Quiz 14 (ch 14)  Red Team On-Site  
8 Chapter 15: Compliance Laws   
Course wrap -up (Please note that 
assignments f or this week will be due on  
Friday, not Sunday! This is due when the 8 -
week course ends).  Quiz  15 (ch 15) 
 Class Project  
 
 
**All deliverables are due at the end of day (11:59 PM) on the submission date (usually Sunday) . 
   Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
4 Grading:  
There are 100 points total in this class. Given the nature of the four core activities which comprise the 
final grade (detailed below), no extra credit/c urves will be provided in this class.  Grades will not be 
rounded up (i.e., 86.9 is a B+, not an A -). The grading breakdown is as follows:  
Total 
points  Grade  Total 
points  Grade  Total 
points  Grade  Total%  Grade  
>=93   
>=90   
>=87   A+ 
A  
A-  >=83   
>=80   
>=77   B+  
B  
B-  >=70   
>=67   
>=63   C+  
C  
C-  >=60   
<=57   
<57  D+ 
D 
F 
Four  activities make up the to tal grade: quizzes, lab assignments, discussion forums partici pation , and  
the c lass project . The point breakdown for each is provided in the table below. The following sub -
sections describe each component and summarize the rationale and intuition behind the assessment.  
Activity  Type  Individual % Value  
Quizzes  Individual  30% 
Labs / Assignments  Individual  45% 
Discussion Participation  Individual  10%  
Project  Individual  15% 
Quizzes:  
There are no exams on the course . Such examinations are not necessarily realistic of what you will 
encounter in day -to-day “real world” working environments (short of professional certifications). 
Instead , there is a quiz for each chapter. These quizzes are an opportunity to check your knowledge and 
understanding of each chapter . Security professionals are frequently required to work in a real -time 
fashion where they may not have the opportunity to look up answers to questions from their boss or co -
workers. You will often find yourself i n meetings in which time is of utmost importance . The review 
questions provided at the end of chapter and lecture will help you prepare for the quiz. Each quiz must  
be completed individually.   
Assignments:  
While the quizzes test your “on the spot” and “qui ck thinking ability” (both skills highly sought after by 
security recruiters!), assignments simulate the projects security professionals often engage in. My job is 
to facilitate your learning – I cannot treat you like an empty glass and just fill you up wi th knowledge. As 
such, the assignments  are more critical thinking and hands -on in nature . The emphasis is APPLYING  the 
core knowledge competencies attained in each chapter in meaningful (i.e., recent and relevant) 
situations. This can and will include the opportunity to apply the course content to areas of your interest 
and to your workplace environment.  
Discussion Forum Participation : 
Since this is an asynchronous onli ne course ( we do not have lectures ), class participation will be 
conducted using the Discussion forums  in Canvas . The discussion topics can be started by me or by any 
student . This could be about som ething you read in the textbook where you want to hear what others  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
5 think, or maybe a difficulty you faced completing an assignment, or an experience you had that relates 
to either the chapters or the labs. You can start a new discussion thread with a quest ion, an opinion, an 
anecdote, a suggestion, etc., or contribute to an existing thread. It is very open -ended , as long as it is 
something of value to the class.  To get full credit for participation (10% of the total grade), I expect you 
to contribute to a discussion every week. Class participation  won't start until week 2 so that you have 
time to set up  the labs and in general get started with the class during week 1.  
Class Project : 
A project description will be posted on Canva s durin g the first half  of the course. The learning objective 
of the assigned project will be to demonstrate the application of one or several  cybersecurity concept s. 
Sometimes, depending on th e type of project, there m ay be t wo deliverables (like a midterm and a 
final). This would help  you avoid a he avier load towards the end of the course . 
Please note that the quizzes and assignments are not searching through course content and explicit 
mentioning of every point by an instructor (e.g., contr ol + f). As a master’s level course, the assignments 
require independent thinking (careful thought, critical thinking) and some external research.  This 
simulates what cybersecurity professionals must do on a daily basis – thus, this type of learning cannot 
be compromised in this class, nor others.   
Late Assignment Submission Policy: No late assignments will be accepted. No assignments will be 
dropped. All assignments must be submitted on Canvas by the due date.  These assignments can take  
time, please plan your work  accordingly.   
Course Hero / Chegg Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these web sites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors use to quickly and easily compare ea ch student's assignment with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. After the assignment 
is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another auth or’s 
work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
Working Ahead of Schedule  and Steps to be Successful in this Course : 
Each discussion topic , assignment, and quiz will be posted a minimum of one week in advance of their 
respective due dates. If content opens earlier, students are encouraged to work ahead. If you submit 
your assignment before the due date, I might  be able to give you corrective feedback . Students are 
encouraged to stay in consistent contact with the instructor regarding their prog ress. To be successful in 
this course, students are suggested to follow the below strategy (in order) for each week.  
1. Carefully read each chapter  in the textbook  assigned to the week (required reading) . 
2. Consult  with instructor and/or TAs regarding course content if you have any questions . 
3. After d oing the above two, go over the review questions and take the quiz (independently!) . 
a. You are responsible for ALL content in chapter and labs – they will be tested accordingly!!!  
4. Carefully work on assignment content following ALL directions  carefully and thoroughly .  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
6 Office Hours and Communications:  
Please email me  with  any course questions.  Selected course questions may be redirected to the course 
TA(s). For all emails, please include ISM 6328  in your subject line. This will enable me to sift through 
our emails more quickly. Under no rmal circ umstances, I will respond within 24 hours of your post 
Monday thro ugh Friday and 48 hours on Saturday and Sunday. If you have a question regarding your 
personal performance in the course, please  email me directly  using the ad dress a bove. I will provide 
feed back on course work that needs to be manually graded (e. g., essay  papers, projec ts) with in 72 hours 
of the submission due date . You will be able to  see results for automatically  graded course work (online 
quizzes) after  the specif ied dea dline.  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window o pens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued. I take evaluations and feedback extremely seriously. Please also feel free to 
reach out to me during the semester if you have any feedback – it is better if I know sooner rather than 
later!  Students  will have an opportunity to provide feedback at the end of each assignment. The feed -
forward assignment is also an opportunity to provide detailed feedback to the instructor.  
University Mandated Course Policies:  
USF has a set of central policies related  to student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to re view 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -
policy -statements.aspx   
Course FAQ:  
How to communicate with me?  
You can either send me an email directly or through Canvas . When emailing directly or through 
Canvas, please write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email. The 
emails should be composed professionally, and the language should be courteous and respectful. I 
cannot  guarantee  a response through Teams, specially on weekends.  
 How NOT to communicate wi th me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted 
through Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an email that I sent  to the entire class without changing the su bject line, 
unless your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get 
my email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous 
text from that email, if your email pertains to som ething else.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should arrive in your inbox. If you 
send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send me an email  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
7 directly, I will r espond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to reply to your emails 
within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Junk Mail folder so if you have not rec eived my response 
within 24 hours, please resend your email directly . I will provide feedback on your assignments 
through Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and 
announce ments. I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and 
expectations and have your questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a 
more productive semester. Please re ad this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me 
questions.  
• Complete the reading assignments and class pre -work:   You will get a lot more out of this 
class if you complete the assigned readings and do the pre -work. In my experience, students 
who don't  complete the reading either never complete it or try to cram it all in just before the 
exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, unsatisfactory grades are due to procrastination 
than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete  the work for 
this class.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing assignments:   You cannot pass the course without doing 
at least most of the assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you 
get behind, you will find it very difficult to cat ch up.  
• Do not cheat:  Cheating will not be tolerated. You will lose the entire grade for the assignment 
and second chances will not be given. Student integrity is a serious matter.  
• A simple formula:  submit quality work, on time.  
 