 
 
 
 
 
Human Resource Management, MAN 3301 -791 
Syllabus  
 
      
Instructor:  Dr. Zheng  Chen   Office Hours :  By Appointment  
Office:  LPH427      
Office Phone:  (727) 873 -4087  Office      
Email:  zhengchen@ usf.edu 
(This  is the best way to  
reach  me)     
Classroom:  Online      
 
 
Prerequisite  
 
 None. Principle s of Management (MAN 3025) may be hel pful to gain prior kno wledge or skills 
for success in the course, but not required.  
 
Course Desc ription:  
 
To develop  a broad expo sure to new approaches, techniques, and future trends in the 
management of personnel. A study of the major functions in personn el including job analy sis, 
recruitment,  selection, performance evaluation, training, wage and salary administration,  and 
equal em ployment.  
 
Course Objective(s):   
 
Upon completion of this course students will be able  to: 
1) Define job analysis and explain its  operations.  
2) Define recruitment and describe the process of  recruitment  
3) Define selection and describe the process of  selection  
4) Describe training and explain its key  elements  
5) Describe performance appraisal and explain its  operations.  
6) Identify sexual  harassme nt 
7) Explain  FLSA  
8) Describe equal employment  
9) Compare & contrast disparate impact and disparate  treatment  
 
 
Business Pro gram Learning  Goals (Skill(s) and Perspectives) Addressed in This Course:  
 
Written  and 
Oral 
Communicati
on Information  
Technology 
Skills  Inno vation 
and Critical  
Thinking Ethical 
and 
Sustainabili
ty Multicultural 
Competence  
3(a) 5(b) 1(c) 2(d) 2(e) 
 
(a) Written  assignments.  
(b) Entire  course.  
(c) Conducting research for written  assignments.  
(d) Chapter  2 (Understanding  the External  and Organizational  Environme nts) and 
article readi ngs. 
(e) Chapter  2 (Understanding  the External  and Organizational  Environments)  and article  
readin gs. 
 
 
Require d/Supplementary Text(s):  
 
TEXT : Human Resource Management: Functions, Applications, and Skill Development . 3rd 
Edition. Lussier, R. N. & Hendon, J. R . ISBN: 9781544320618 . 
 
See canvas for other options including print book and print & ebook bu ndle. 
 
Determ ination of Final Grade:  
 
Tableau Pr oject /HR interv iew 2% 
HR News Discussion  8% 
Chapter Quizzes  20%  
Exam 1  35%  
Exam 2  35%  
 
 
Grade Categorie s and Weights  (No rounding) : 
 
Final class grade cuto ffs: 
A: 100% to  94%  C+: 79.99% to  76%  
A-: 93.99%  to 90%  C: 75 .99% to  73%  
B+: 89.99%  to 86%  C- : 72.99% to  70%  
B: 85.99% to  83%  D+: 69.99% to  66%  
B- : 82.99%  to 80%  D: 65.99% to  60%  
F: 60% to 0%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 COURSE SCHEDULE  
Due Da tes TOPIC  Assignment Due  
5/15 Intro &  Course Overview  Self intro  attendance /extra 
credits  
5/15 Chapter 2    Module 1  
5/19 Drop/Add Deadline   
5/22 Chapter 3    Module 2 
5/22 Chapter 4   Module 3 
5/30 Chapter 5  – MEMORIAL DAY ADJUSTMENT  Module 4 
5/30 Chapter 6  – MEMORIAL DAY ADJUSTMENT  Module 5 
6/5 Chapter 7  Module 6 
6/5 Exam 1  Exam 1 DUE  
6/10 Last Day t o Withdraw from  Course   
6/12 Chapter 8  Module 7  
6/12 Chap ter 11  Modul e 8 
6/12 Chapter 12    Mod ule 9 
6/19 Exam 2  Exam 2 DUE  
 
6/19  Tableau Pr oject  or HR 
interv iew Due 
 
Course Policies:  
Course Policies and Expectations  
Succ essful complet ion of this co urse  will require t hat you pr epare fo r class  on a co nsist ent 
basis . It is expe cted that you read all chapters in the r equired te xtbook listed on  the course 
schedule.  
 
All assignments must be submitted through Canvas by each week  by due date  (11:59M, US 
Eastern Time). Due dates will be  clearly posted on e ach assignment.  Please do not  email your 
assignments. What you submit  through Canvas is wha t will  be graded, eve n if you submitted 
nothing at all or only a partial assignment. Please doub le check your work b efore submission . 
No late ass ignment will be acce pted. There are  no exceptions  to this policy. Please submit 
early to avoid problems.  
Video  Lectu res 
You will be  required to watch a video lecture in each module. These lectures are about  5-10 
minutes each an d provide frame work s for each  chapter. The video  lectures shoul d be used in 
combination with your careful study of th e textbook. There will  be qu estions embedde d 
within the  videos.  The questions  are for practice  only  and are not graded . Students have  found  
the video lect ures  to be ver y helpful for  exams . 
 Chapter Quiz zes 
You will be  required to complete a quiz for each m odule. Each quiz gener ally c onsists of 5-10 
multiple choice questions. Each quiz covers all textbook and module material. You will have 
15 minutes to complete  each quiz . The purpose of the qu izzes is t o prepar e yo u for the 
exams. You will be able to see th e correct answers the next m orning @ 8  am after th e quizzes 
are due. Each quiz covers all module and textbook material.  
Exams  
2 exams will be given, as indica ted on the attached schedule. Exa ms are no t com prehens ive, 
and the study guides are posted on Canv as. Each exam will consist of 50 to 60 multiple -choice 
questions, with a 2 -hour limit. Because this is an online course, exam s will be open  book.  
However, stu dying th e material well before yo u take th e exa m is very im portant. Please make 
sure you submit wi thin the 2 -hour limit. Answ ers to the exams will not be available for 
viewing due to ensure academic integrity. You may make an appointment  to go over your 
exam. 
 
Mak e-up exams cannot be give n without  clear docume ntation of the circumstances that 
warrant m issing an exam. Unfortunate ly, I cannot accept un documented "internet problems", 
"computer crashes", etc. for failure to comp lete an exam w ithin the allotted time per iod. 
Please understand th at if you  choo se to use yo ur home, work, or any other computer, y ou do 
so at your own risk. If you feel that your computer may be unstable, have a backup computer 
ready or, better yet, take the exam in a USF computer lab. T he only types of computer 
problem s for whi ch I will consider making an exception are: USF computer  problems (which 
must be do cumented by a USF syst em administrator) or well -documented and widespread 
power failures in St. Pe tersburg (such  as those caused by  a hurri cane). Requests concernin g 
alterna tive or longer exam times or alternative exam dates will  not be granted unless you 
provide proper documen tation from the University.  
 
HR News  
You need to write a summary of the news  and use chapt er material to prov ide an ana lysis of 
the news story  (300 wor d LIMIT). The  purpose of submitting a news story is to k eep up -to-
date with HR mana gement  and understand  the i mportant  role of HR in business. Please use 
credible sources such as th e Wall Street Journ al, Business W eekly, or SHRM. org. Stories that 
are not  relate d to HR,  not interesting, or submitted haphazardly will not receive any points . 
 
Tableau Project/ HR interview  
USF has launched a Citizen Data Science Certificate program for th e undergraduat e students 
at the M UMA  colleg e of business. This pro gram is a join t program wi th Tableau. Please refer 
to canvas  for detailed instructions  on how to complete this assignment . You will use Tableau 
to analyze a dataset to tell data -driven stori es with visual izations, building a dashboar d to 
show your insights . Create a vid eo that high lights your insights and findings, and post to 
YouTube as an unlisted video.  Submit the YouTube URL of your video to Canvas.  
 
You are strongly encouraged  to work on  the Tableau p roject as part of t he certifi cation 
program. However , if you prefe r, you can a lternatively interview an HR professional and 
submit a  10-minute  video of the interview. Details for this req uirement is posted on Canvas 
under exam 2/Tableau proje ct/Alternative  Project .   
 Others  
Recording  of Lec tures a nd Copyri ghts:  
All unau thorized rec ordings of class are prohibited. Recor dings that accommodate individu al 
stude nt needs must be approved  in adv ance and may be used for personal use during the 
semest er only; redis tribution  is pr ohib ited. 
 
University  Assessm ent 
You should be awar e that some of th e work you complete this semester will be used for 
purposes other  than ca lculating your final cou rse grad e. More speci fically, different types of 
assessments a re required fo r us to m aintai n ou r accredit ation a s a univ ersity a nd/or as a 
college of busi ness.  
Most of these assessment s are done as part of the course and wil l requir e no additional work 
from you as  a stude nt. If you have any questions or concerns abou t this please let me kn ow. 
 
CELL PHO NES/PAG ERS: If you bri ng a cel l phone, pager  or any othe r com munication 
device to  class,  please  be sure  to turn  it off and do not use it in the classroom.  These 
devic es are not to be used during an  exam.  
 
End of Semester  Student Evalu ations:   
All cl asse s at USF m ake use  of an o nline sy stem for stude nts to pr ovide fe edback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will  be made  available at the end of  the 
semester, and th e University will notify you by email whe n the response  window o pens. Your  
participa tion is  highly encourag ed and valued.   
 
Late W ork Policy: No late assignments are accepted f or this  course.  
 
Extra Cred it Polic y: There will be no extr a credit  assignm ents for this c ourse.  
 
INCOMPLETE GRADES : An “ I” grade may b e given t o an u nder graduate s tudent only whe n a smal l 
portion of t he student’s  work  (normally 30% or less) is incomplete due to circumstances beyond  
the con trol of the student and only whe n a stud ent i s otherwise earning a passing grade.  “I”  
grades are to  be used only i n em ergency si tuation s and ca nnot to be used as a m eans of 
avoiding a poor grade. Normally these are only for medical emergencies and  require  a signed 
letter from a medical professional that the student was prevented from atten ding class. Th e 
student  must petition the p rofesso r before  the wee k of final exa ms for a gra de of  “I” to be 
given.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
Make -up exams cannot b e given without clear doc umentati on of t he circumstan ces that 
warrant missing an exam. U nfortun ately, I canno t accept undocu ment ed "intern et prob lems", 
"computer  crashes", etc . for failur e to complete an exam within the allotted time period. Please 
underst and that  if you choose to  use you r home,  work, or any  other computer, you do so at 
your own ris k. If you feel  that you r comp uter  may be un stable,  have a backup c omputer ready 
or, better y et, take the exam in a USF computer lab. The only types of computer p roblems for 
which I will consider  making  an exception  are: USF computer problems (which must be  
documented by  a USF sy stem a dmin istrator) or well-documented and widespread pow er failures in St. Petersburg (such as those caused by a hurricane). Requests con cerning alternative 
or lo nger exa m times  or alternati ve exam dates will not be granted u nless y ou provide pro per 
docum entati on from the Un iversit y. 
 
 
Final Exami nations Policy : All final exam s are to be scheduled in accordance with the 
University’s final e xaminati on policy.  
 
 
Course Polic ies: Te chnology and Media 
 
Email : Please send all course relat ed emails via Canvas e mail. Emails will be answere d 
within 24 business hour s exc luding w eekends and holidays. For canvas /technolog y 
related issues , please con tact USF's IT department at (813) 97 4-1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Canvas : This co urse will  be of fered via USF' s learn ing management s ystem (LMS), Canvas. If yo u 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this cou rse o r other courses being 
offere d in Ca nvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You may al so contact USF 's IT 
departmen t at (813) 974 -1222 o r help@ usf.edu. 
Online Courses may be subje ct to t he following:  
Electronic Plagiari sm Detection:  Students ar e hereb y notified th at the instructor intends 
to use electroni c plagiarism d etection servic es in this cou rse. By registering for  and 
participa ting in this  course, students consent to their wo rk bein g sent to, analyzed by 
and stored  in any plagiarism detect ion service.  
Online  Courses may be subject to the following : 
Electronic Pla giarism D etecti on: Students a re here by notified that  the instructo r 
intends to  use electronic plagiarism detection service s in this course. By  registering 
for and participating in this co urse, student s consent to their work being sent 
to, ana lyzed by and s tored in any pl agiarism detec tion se rvice.  
Online Pr octoring Sylla bus Statemen t: 
All students must review the sylla bus and  the requirements includi ng the o nline 
terms and video tes ting re quiremen ts to  determine if they wish to  remain in the 
course. Enrollm ent in th e cour se is an agree ment to  abide by and ac cept all terms . 
Any studen t ma y elect to drop or withdraw from this course  before  the end of th e 
drop/a dd period.  
Online exams a nd quiz zes within th is course may require online proctoring. T herefore, 
stud ents will  be re quired to have  a webc am (USB or inter nal) with a mi crophone whe n 
taking an exam or quiz. Students un derstan d that this remote record ing devi ce is 
purchased and contr olled b y the student  and that recordings from any private 
residence must be done with  the p ermi ssion of a ny pers on residing in t he residence. To 
avoid any  concerns in this regard, students sh ould se lect private spaces for t he testi ng. 
The University librar y and o ther academic  sites at the University offer secure priv ate 
settings f or record ings a nd students wi th conc erns may discuss  location of a n appropriat e space for the recordings  with their  instru ctor or advisor. Students  must 
ensure that any recordings do not  invade any th ird party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility a nd liabil ity fo r violations o f any t hird party priva cy concerns.  Setup 
inform ation will be  provided prior to takin g the p roctored exam. For additi onal 
information about online pro ctoring  you can visit the  online proctoring student FAQ 
(Links  to an  externa l site.) . 
 
USF  ST. PETERSBURG  POLIC IES 
 
HONOR SYSTEM : Under the US F Honor Syst em, each student is expected to obs erve co mplete 
honesty in all acade mic matt ers.  Violation of the Ho nor Sys tem will be referred to the Honor 
Council.  Note:  The following are violation s of t he H onor Code:   Copyi ng another stude nt’s 
homework,  signing ano ther student’s name on the attendan ce rost er, copying another group’s  disk 
or written work, using anot her stu dent’s comput er disk to print out your assignment, copy ing 
another st udent’s f ile on to your disk, and mis representing a r eason for a mi ssed exam.  Puni shment 
result in suspension or expulsi on. See the USF SP Policy on  Academi c Integrity of Students  at page 
51 of the fol lowing links:  https://w ww.u sfsp.edu/catalog/files/2019/03/ FINAL -Catalog -2018 -
2019 -w-updates -as-of-3-2019.pdf   (for undergrad uate)  
 
https://ww w.usfsp .edu/catalog/fil es/2018/08/201 8-19-Graduat e-Catalog.pdf   (for graduate)  
 
STUDENTS W ITH DISABILITIES : Please no tify you r instructor by the secon d class  meeting if you have a 
learning disability or require s pecial assista nce with this c ours e.  Confid ential personal and 
learning assistan ce counselin g are made available to students th rough t he Division of Student 
Affairs.  Co ntact R. Barry McDowell, St. Pet ersburg Campu s: Student Life Center (SLC 1203) (727) 
873-4990, ( mcdowell@usfsp.e du) for more information.  Students who need extended time on  
exams need to inform the Disabili ties Off ice at least seven (7) sc hool da ys (Monday-Friday) in 
advance of the scheduled exam, so  that the Disa bilities Office  has adequate time to  inform me . 
 
COPYRIGHTS :  Stud ents who wis h to audiotape lectures can do so w ith dir ect permission from the 
professor, but tapes and lectures ma y not b e sold. No vi deos or photos can be taken in the 
classro om!  
 
GRADE FORGIVENESS : Unde rgraduate grade forgi veness is limite d to three USF SP courses w ith no 
more than one repeat per cou rse.  A ccounting majors can use th e forgiv eness only once in upper 
level a ccounting cou rses. There is NO grade forgiveness at the  Graduate Leve l. 
 
S/U  GRADES :  This course cannot be taken on an S /U basis.  
 
WITHDRAWAL : No “W” grades can be obtai ned afte r the official drop or withdrawal date  (indica te 
date for each semester ). All students enro lled as of the withdrawal date  March  27, 2021, will 
rece ive a let ter gr ade of A, B+, B, C, C+, C, D+, D or F . 
 
EMERGENCY P REPAREDNESS:   In the event of an emergenc y, it may be necessary for USF to 
suspen d norm al opera tions. During this time, U SF may opt to  continue delivery of instruction 
through methods that i nclude bu t are not limited to : Canva s, Elluminate, S kype, and emai l 
messaging and/or an alternate s chedule.  It is the responsibility of the student  to mo nitor Canvas  site for each class f or course spe cific communication, and the main USF, Col lege, and depa rtment 
websites , em ails, and MoBull messages for imp ortant general  information . 
 
BOMB THREAT OR OTH ER DISRU PTION:  All scheduled classes will be he ld in an alter nate room in 
the ca se of a  bomb scare, fire alarm or other disruption. Students w ill gather out side of t he 
classroom buildin g at a designated area in the parking  lot so that  an alternative room may be 
announced.  
 
Supporting Crime Victims and Violen ce Again st Women Act (VAWA) : 
If yo u are the vic tim of a crime, USFSP is ready to assist y ou in the mann er that y ou det ermi ne is 
best  for yo u. Please know t hat, as a USF employee, I am obligated by Feder al law t o immediately 
report any incidents of se xual a ssault, dating & domestic v iolence , and stalkin g relayed to me – 
including the victim’s n ame – to the U SFSP Poli ce Dep artm ent and/or  the US FSP Dean of 
Stud ents. If you d esire confid entiality, there are campus a nd community resources listed below 
that will respect that decision.   
 
Confident ial Resources  Non -Confidential Resources  
USFSP Victim Advocacy Servi ces 
Avail able: 24hr s/7days  
Tel: 727-698-2079  USFSP P olice Departme nt 
Tel: 727 -873-4140 or  
USFSP W ellness Center (SLC 2000)  
M/T/W/F: 8am – 5pm  
Thurs: 9: 30am – 5pm 
Tel: 727 -873-4422 Dean of Students &  Director of Residence Life & 
Housing : Dr. Jacob Diaz  
PNM 
Tel: 72 7-873-4823  
deanofstude nts@usfsp.edu   
Rape  Crisis Center of Pinellas County  
Tel: 727 -530-7273 
PEMHS: 727 -541-4628  Pinellas County Sheriff 
Tel: 727-582-6200 or 911  
 
 St. Petersburg Poli ce Department  
Tel: 727 -893-7780 o r 911 
 
If you ar e not sure what to do , you are  strongly en couraged to contact t he USFSP  Victim 
Advocate to confidentially explo re you r option s including: Injunc tions &  Protective O rders on 
campus; Changes in Accommodations , Living Arran gements, Class Sche dules, & T ranspor tation; 
Assistan ce with Academ ic Issues – missed classes, late assignme nts, etc.    
 
COVID S TATEMENT  
The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campuses is our top priority. 
In res ponse to the c urrent COVID -19 pan demic, the  USF community will be working togeth er 
to suppor t compliance with recommended health and safety standards to optimize the learning 
experience while minimizing h ealth risks.  The Conduct Expectations for all membe rs of the  
comm unity may be access ed at (Conduct Expected to Support U SF Health and Safety 
Standards ) with details provid ed below.   
Students and faculty w ill be gui ded by established USF processes to e nsure the sa fest possible 
non-disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic Disruption Regulation  which provide s for an immed iate removal or 
restriction f rom a classroom setting  with academic  sanctions a nd/or  (2) Student Conduct Regulation  to address co nduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as outlined below .  
1. Complete daily s creening a s requested .  Anyone ex periencing one  or more COV ID-
19 symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their 
residence hall room and sh ould contact a medical pro vider immediately and foll ow their 
guida nce. Please inform your instr uctor prior to the begi nning class if  your screen ing 
indicates the need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear face coverings .  All members of  the USF community are req uired to wear face 
coverin gs while in cl assrooms or any oth er shared space, including specif ied public or 
common -use a reas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this link 
on How T o Make A F ace Mask . If you have to use a dispo sable face m ask, please 
discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
3. Maintain social distancing . All students, fa culty, staff and guests ar e required to 
maintain a s afe distance f rom one another. So cial dista ncing is maintained in all indoor 
and outdoor spa ces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet (about 2 
arms’ length) from other people, do not  gather in groups, stay ou t of crowded places 
and av oid mass gathe rings. See the CDC for inform ation on Social Distanci ng. Please 
sit in only desig nated areas in class an d do not move chairs or de sks in classrooms or 
common  spaces.  
4. Practice good hand hygiene .  Individuals should wash their hands with soap a nd water 
for at least 20 s econds as often as possibl e or use perso nal hand sanitizers  containin g at 
least 60% alcohol.  Hand sanitize r stations a re available throughout the campus. If you 
see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations on Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect your cla ssroom spa ce. Students and facult y are responsi ble for disi nfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each class. 
This includes d esk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Di sinfectant sup plies 
will be provi ded. If pa per towels are used to disinfect, the y must be di scarded in a trash 
receptable immediately after use.  
 UNIVERSITY LANGUAGE  
 
Academ ic Int egrity  
Academic integr ity is the foundati on of  the University of South Flo rida System’s commitment to 
the a cademic ho nesty and perso nal integrity of its u niversity co mmunity. Academi c integrity is 
grou nded in certain fundamental values, which includ e hone sty, res pect, and fairn ess. Broadl y 
define d, ac ademic honesty is the comple tion of all ac ademic endeavors an d claims o f scholarly 
knowledge  as representati ve of one’s own efforts. The  final decision on an acade mic integrity 
violation and related acad emic s anction at any USF Syst em institut ion shal l affect and be applied 
to the ac ademic status of the student thro ughout the  USF System, un less o therwise determi ned 
by the i ndependently acc redited institution . The pr ocess for faculty reporting of academic 
miscon duct, as  well as the st udent’s opt ions for  appe al, are outlined in detail i n USF System 
Regulation 3.027 https://www.usf.edu/undergrad/docume nts/ac ademic -policies/1academ ic-
integrit y-of-students .pdf. 
 
Disruption to Academ ic Progress  
Disruptive students in the aca demic setting h inder the educational process. Dis ruption of the 
academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of  a stu dent in a classroom or 
other acade mic envi ronme nt which in the reasonable e stimation of t he instructor: (a) directs 
attention away fr om the  academic matter s at hand, s uch as noisy dis tractions, persiste nt, 
disrespectful or abusive interruption of lec ture, exam, ac ademic discussi on, or gene ral 
Univ ersit y operations, or (b) present s a danger to the health, safety,  or well-being of self or  
other  persons. http://reg ulatio nspolici es.usf.edu/regu lations/pdf s/regula tion-usf3.025.pdf  
 
Academic Grie vance Procedur e 
The purpose of th ese proced ures is to prov ide al l undergraduate and graduate  students taking  
courses within the  Univers ity of South Florida System an opportuni ty for  objecti ve review of 
facts and eve nts pert inent  to the cause of the academi c grievance. A n “academic grievan ce” is a 
claim that a spe cific academic decisio n or action that affects tha t student’s academi c record  or 
status has violated published polici es and  procedu res, or has bee n applied t o the gr ievan t in a 
manner different from  that used for  other students. USF Sy stem Pol icy 10 -002 
 
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harass ment  
USF is committed to providin g an env ironm ent free from sex discrimina tion, includin g sexual 
harassment  and sexua l violence http://regulationspolicie s.usf. edu/poli cies-and-
proced ures/pdfs/p olicy -0-004.p df (USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Cen ter for Victim is a  
confident ial resource wh ere yo u can talk about  incidents o f sexual harassm ent and gender -
base d crimes  including sexual assault, stalking, and  domes tic/rela tionship violen ce. This 
confidenti al re source can help you without having to repo rt your situation t o either t he Office of 
Student Rights and Respo nsibilities (OSSR) https: //www.usf.edu/s tudent-affairs/stud ent-rights -
responsibilities/   or the Office of  Diversity, Inclusi on, and Eq ual Opportunity  (DIEO ) 
https://www.usf .edu/div ersity/  , unless you request that they make a  report.  Please be awar e 
that in c omplianc e wit h Title IX and under the USF  System Policy , educators must re port 
incid ents of sexual harass ment and gender -based crimes  including sexua l assault, stalking , and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you dis close any of t hese situations  in class, in paper s, or  to 
me personally, I am requ ired to report  it to OSSR or DIEO  for inves tigation. Conta ct the  USF Center for Victim Advoc acy and Violence  Prevention: (813) 974-5757  
https://www .usf.edu /stud ent-affairs/victim -advocacy/ . 
 
Religious Observances  
All st udents hav e a right to ex pect t hat the Universi ty will reas onably accommoda te their 
religious observan ces, practices and beliefs  http://reg ulationspolicies.us f.edu/poli cies-and-
proced ures/p dfs/policy -10-045.pdf  (USF System Policy 10 -045). The USF Syst em, thro ugh its 
faculty, will make every attempt  to sc hedule r equired classes  and examin ations i n vie w of 
customarily observed re ligious holida ys of those religio us groups or communities compri sing the 
USF Sys tem’s consti tuency. Students  are expected to at tend cla sses and take examinations as 
determined  by th e USF Sy stem. No studen t shall be compelle d to attend class or sit for an 
examination at a day or time prohi bited by h is or her relig ious b elief. However, students sho uld 
review the c ourse requirements and meet ing days and times to avoid foreseeable confli cts, as 
excessive absen ces in a gi ven term  may prevent a student from compl eting the acad emic 
requirements o f a specif ic course. Stud ents a re expected to n otify their instructors at t he 
beginning of eac h academ ic term if they intend to be absent for a clas s or ann ounced 
examinat ion, in acc ordance with this Policy.  
 
Statement of A cademic Contin uity  
In the event of an emer gency, it may b e nece ssary for USF to  suspend nor mal operations. During 
this time, U SF may o pt to continue delivery of instruction t hrough  methods  that include, but are 
not limited  to: Learning Management System, online confere ncing, email messag ing, and/o r an 
alternate schedu le. It is the re sponsibility  of the student to monitor the Lear ning Man agement 
System for each class for course -speci fic comm unication, and the main US F, Colle ge, a nd 
Department websites, emai ls, and MoBull  messages for impor tant gener al information (USF 
System Policy 6 -010)  http://r egulationspolic ies.usf.edu /policie s-and-procedures/pdfs/policy -6-
010.pdf . For ad ditional guidance o n emergenc y protective ac tions and hazards that  affect the 
University, plea se visit https: //www.usf.e du/admin istra tive-services/emergency -mana gement/  
 
 
 
 