` 1 Muma College of Business University of South Florida  MAN 6165 - Principles of Collaboration  COURSE SYLLABUS  Logistics Day & Time: Mondays, 6:30pm – 10:15pm Location BSN 123 Instructor: Professor GJ de Vreede, Dean’s Office, (813) 816 9800 (cell & text), gdevreede@usf.edu. Office hours: On MS Teams or in person, by appointment. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Canvas: Course documents and up-to-date schedule information are available through Canvas, so check there for the most up to date information.  Overview Collaboration is a fundamental ingredient of organizational life. To facilitate productive teamwork, many organizations employ collaboration technologies and processes. This course approaches collaboration from a variety of perspectives. It illustrates experiences with collaboration techniques and technologies through a number of practical examples and exercises. It focuses on the practical application of best practices and scientific research toward joint effort in the workplace. It provides frameworks to make sense of collaboration technologies and their application. During the course, students learn and practice with a collection of best practices for leadership, interpersonal collaboration, creative problem solving, facilitation, group process design, and collaboration engineering. The course will employ a mix of teaching methods: lectures, case examples, individual and group exercises, practical experiences with e-collaboration technology, group discussions, and coaching/self-reflection.  Course Topics & Schedule 
 WeekDateTopicsAssignments16 FebruaryIntroductionsCourse overviewThe 7 Layer Model of CollaborationSyllabus quizPersonal IntroductionSign Plagiarism statement213 FebruaryCollaboration TechnologyGroup Support Systems320 FebruaryGroup PresentationsGroup Presentation427 FebruaryFacilitation BasicsThinkLets56 MarchThinkLetsWorkshop design guidelines-13 MarchSpring Break!620 MarchWorkshop design 727 MarchWorkshop Team 1Design of all teams’ workshops83 AprilWorkshop Team 2910 AprilWorkshop Team 31017 AprilWorkshop Team 41124 AprilFacilitation guidelinesCollaboration EngineeringIndividual evaluation121 MayFinal ExamFinal Exam` 2  Objectives The objectives of this course include: 1. To learn how to design and moderate group meetings in which complex issues are addressed collaboratively. 2. To learn how to apply meeting leadership techniques to stimulate and focus group efforts. 3. To learn how to apply collaboration techniques and technologies for participative problem solving.  Learning Outcomes Upon completion of this course, students will be able to: 1. Articulate the role of facilitation and facilitation techniques in organizations through class discourse. 2. Design workshops according to the elements of the Seven Layer Model of Collaboration. 3. Facilitate workshops, in which the stated goals are met and the stated deliverables are produced.  Text and Materials 1. Vreede, G.J. de, & Briggs, R.O. (2011). Facilitation of Technology Supported Collaboration. Omaha: The Center for Collaboration Science.(Will be made available for free on Canvas. A print version is available at https://www.lulu.com/shop/gert-jan-de-vreede-and-robert-briggs/facilitation-of-technology-supported-collaboration/paperback/product-17gj7wrv.html?q=Facilitation+of+Technology+Supported+Collaboration&page=1&pageSize=4 ) 2. Kolfschoten, G.L., & de Vreede, G.J. (2007). ThinkLet based Collaboration Process Design. Omaha: The Center for Collaboration Science. (Will be made available on Canvas).  Grading Your final grade in the course will be based on your scores for the following assignments, with associated weights:   
  Your final grade is based on the percentage of points that you receive out of the total possible points for the course. The grade scale is shown in the following table.  AssignmentWeightClass Participation15%Group Presentation15%Workshop Design15%Workshop Facilitation20%Individual Evaluation5%Final exam30%Total100%` 3  
  Assignments 1. Class Participation: You are expected to actively participate in class discussions. This involves familiarizing yourself with the topics of discussion, reading the assigned materials before class, and offering your ideas, expertise, and knowledge when appropriate. 2. Group Presentation: Your group will make a short presentation (max. 30 minutes including 10 minutes for Q&A) to the class. This presentation will have to meet and be evaluated on the following three criteria: it addresses a topic that has to do with the facilitation of workshops, it has depth (i.e. is not superficial), and it keeps the audience (including the professor) on the edge of their seats. Creativity in topic choice, presentation materials, and presentation form are highly encouraged! 3. Workshop design: During the course, your group will design and run a collaboration workshop. This workshop should have a real problem owner: a team or organization from within or outside of USF. The design of the workshop will have to be handed in and will be evaluated. The workshop design should consist at least of the following items: Goal & deliverables of the workshop, proposed agenda items, and proposed meeting procedures (in term of thinkLets). Criteria used to assess the designs include, but are not limited to: appropriate delineation and focusing, logical flow of session, appropriate choice of thinkLets, professional style. 4. Workshop facilitation: The design your group made for the workshop will be put to the test: your group will facilitate the workshop with participants from the problem owner. Criteria used to assess the workshop facilitation include, but are not limited to: appropriate execution of the workshop design (thinkLets), ability to get the group to move towards results or new insights, adaptability, professional style. 5. Individual Evaluation: At the end of the class you have to prepare an individual evaluation. This will consist of two parts. First, a personal reflection on your strengths and weaknesses as a facilitator. Second, an evaluation of the teamwork in your group. 6. Final Exam: The final exam will cover all course topics and materials. It will be a mix between multiple choice and short open-ended questions.  Assignment Policies Your assignments must be of professional quality. Be certain to check your spelling, punctuation, and grammar. Incomplete, sloppy, disorganized, or unprofessional work will be downgraded. Assignments will be graded both on content and on professional style. Late work policy: no late assignments will be accepted unless given advance permission by the instructor.  POINTSGRADE 98% - 100%A+93% - 97%A90% - 92%A-88% - 89%B+83% - 87%B80% - 82%B-78% - 79%C+73% - 77%C70% - 72%C-68% - 69%D+63% - 67%D60% - 62%D-Less than 60%F` 4 Cheating or copying will simply not be tolerated. You are expected to do your own work on the assignments. If you turn in another person’s work as your own, you will receive an FF for the course. (Note that an FF grade means that you will be expelled from the program). Please review the information on the plagiarism policy implemented in this course in the Code of Conduct section. Please sign the plagiarism statement that is posted on Canvas and submit it by the posted deadline.  Disability Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the office of Students with Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.  University Policy On Religious Observances No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious believes. In accordance with the University policy on observance of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.  Code of Conduct / University Policy On Academic Dishonesty Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis of personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule.   Students do not cheat Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course-graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, speeches, etc.; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  Students do not plagiarize Plagiarism is the intentional appropriation of the work, be it ideas or phrasing of words, of another without crediting the source. (Source: Webster’s Dictionary). “By plagiarizing, a student is, in effect, claiming credit for another individual's thinking and expression. Whether the student has read or heard of the information used, the student must document the source of information. When utilizing written sources, a clear distinction should be made between quotations (which reproduce information from the source word-for-word within quotation marks) and paraphrases (which are restatements of the source information produced in the student's own words). Both direct quotations and paraphrases must be documented. Even though a student rephrases, condenses or selects from another person's work the ideas are still the other person's and failure to give credit constitutes misrepresentation of the student's actual work and plagiarism of another person's idea. Purchasing a paper or copying another person's work and handing it in as the student's personal work is plagiarism and misrepresentation." (Source: Oakland University Graduate Catalog, 1987-89)  The University of South Florida, via the myUSF CANVAS system, has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service (Turnitin) which allows students and instructors to submit assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Assignments will be checked using the Turnitin automated plagiarism detection system. For more information regarding plagiarism, go to USF Academic Integrity Policy 3.027: https://usf.app.box.com/v/usfregulation3027. Additional information from Turnitin on the use of their system is described in their manuals at: http://turnitin.com/en_us/training/student-` 5 training/submitting-a-paper. For information on avoiding plagiarism and citing properly visit http://www.lib.usf.edu/guides/avoiding-plagiarism/.  Note: Students must follow APA citation guidelines in writing reports and assignments. A summary of the APA citation guidelines is available on canvas.  Other infractions that are considered plagiarism or cheating 1. Students do not collaborate on exams or assignments except when explicitly authorized by the instructor (e.g., team projects). 2. Students do not falsely obtain, distribute, or use academic research materials. 3. Students only submit exams, reports, programs or other assignments that is their own original work. When submitting a work with his/her own name on a paper, the student is certifying that it is her/his own work.  Any student that is caught plagiarizing or cheating, will receive an FF for the course. Please note that an FF implies removal from the program.  University Statement on Delivery of Instruction in event of Emergency In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course-specific communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages for important general information (USF Policy 6-010).  Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  Preliminary Guidance Document Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually or part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty member is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student Conduct Code.   Campus Free Expression  It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it. 