 


Instructor: 
Barb Warner (bwarner@usf.edu),  Office hours: Tues/Thurs, noon-2pm via Teams (See Canvas for all office hour links)
Additional TA Office Hours for project help: Mon: 1-3pm, Wed 5-7pm, Fridays 11am-1pm & 4-6pm
Email: 
Contact me at the email address above or use the Canvas email system.  Grading questions should be addressed via email, not the assignment comment sections.  
TAs don’t respond to email, Canvas assignments comments, messages.


Welcome!
Welcome to ISM 3011.  Hopefully this summer we are seeing Covid in the rearview mirror.  But we will still approach the semester armed with data, flexibility, patience and care.

Course Description 
The ISM3011 course material focuses on two quite distinct content areas.  
The first is a survey of the language, concepts, structures, and processes involved in the field of Business Analytics and Information Systems (BAIS), also referred to as Management Information Systems (MIS).   We will be reading and doing online activities related to these topics.
The second area involves hands-on projects and explores the use of technology for analytics that support business decisions.  In both areas, the course tries to include some creative and interesting encounters with technology concepts that will be applicable all students, regardless of their major. CGS2100 is a prerequisite for this course, and it is assumed that you are proficient using your laptop and Microsoft Excel.

Class Format
ISM 3011, section 020 is fully online.  All assignments and course resources are posted online.  There are no required meetings, however we do offer online office hours every weekday.  Please take advantage of these opportunities.

Course Objectives 
This course is designed for undergraduate business students, as well as anyone else interested in the use of technology within organizations.  
Online (Connect) activities are designed to offer
an overview of the disciplines within the BAIS / MIS field 
familiarization with MIS terms, trends, and new technologies
an understanding of how information systems impact all areas of an organization
Excel, HTML and Tableau projects
hands-on experiences using technology to aid with analytics and decision making

Schedule & Course Topics – See Class Schedule (on Canvas)

Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:
identify the disciplines within BAIS / MIS and the various ways information systems are used within an organization.
contribute to workplace discussions about the use of technology to gain competitive advantages.
describe hardware, software, mobile and network system components.
use and understand the importance of database and analytical software.
identify how information systems can be used in process management and systems development.
discuss current trends in technology, including business intelligence, data mining, and cloud computing.
recognize the importance of the Internet, how it’s used, its role in society and the trends it has enabled (social media)
describe technological threats and safeguards.
discuss the use of technology in the global workforce.
use technology to provide analytics to support data driven decisions.	

Course Materials
Textbook:  This semester we’ll be using the Connect platform.  The idea is to use technology to teach technology, instead of primarily readings and lectures.  You will purchase this through our Canvas class (see our home page). 
Laptop:  All College of Business students are required to own a laptop, please bring yours to on-campus office hours (when available) if you need project help. It’s often impossible to complete projects with a Chromebook, so you may want to use USF library computers if a Chromebook is your only device. 
Webcam / Microphone: Most laptops come with a webcam, so you can use this or purchase a very inexpensive USB web cam for our final project (video required).  Most laptops also include a microphone – you’ll need this as well.  
Optional Materials: Any Microsoft Office text and/or the text from CGS2100 will be helpful if you need to refresh your Excel skills. Lynda.com educational videos are also available to all USF students.   I’ll also supply links to online tutorials.
Software:  We only accept projects done with Office software (2016 and more recent). They cannot be done with any other software (no Works, Google Docs or OpenOffice).  
You can get a copy of Microsoft Office 2016 (Windows or Apple) from portal.office.com/home (sign in with your USF netid; the software is free).  Be sure to download and install the software on your computer, the online 365 Excel is not the complete version. 
Mac Users: 
If you use an Apple version of Office, be sure to check your work on Windows based version of the software, if possible, before uploading to Canvas.  Again, be sure you know how to save your files correctly.  Contact me with questions.

Videos:  Numerous video tutorials are posted in our Project Overview pages in the Modules area on Canvas.     

All other materials will be posted on Canvas.  The TAs and I offer many online office hours via Teams.  We also offer email support (Note that TAs do not respond to email or assignment comments).   Take advantage of any or all these contact opportunities.  We are trying to provide all the tools for success in this class, but you are ultimately responsible for your own learning experience.  

Evaluation Criteria


All work/assignments/announcements/grades are posted on Canvas. 
Grades will be available through the ‘Grades’ link in Canvas.
Final grades are not rounded up unless the course average is less than 75%.
NOTE: Undergraduate students who enter USF under the 2001-2002, or later, catalog are required to earn a grade of C- or better, in every undergraduate core class and an overall GPA of 2.0 for all undergraduate core classes.

Assignment Details
Syllabus Quiz:  This is a brief quiz on Canvas to encourage you to review the syllabus, schedule, FAQ page, and our course materials on Canvas.  You can take this once.  
Each Week:  I’ll post announcements on the home page and send an email announcement reminding you of upcoming activities.  In the Modules area of our Canvas class, you’ll also find links detailing each week’s activities.  
Weekly ‘Check-in’ Quizzes – These are quick, low point quizzes to cover common questions and help us all stay engaged. 
Connect Activities: The schedule details the topics we’ll be covering using the online Connect activities.   The Connect activities allow you to learn about technology by using technology.  They are varied formats to cover concepts important to technology in organizations (they are usually grade boosters if you complete them on-time).  Connect activities include:
Readings – these do not earn any points, but help you prepare for the ALAs and Assessments (quizzes).
Adaptive Learning Activities (ALAs) – these help you cover the concepts and can be used to supplement or replace the readings.  I cannot set late dates for these activities (it’s a Connect system issue), so please complete these before their due dates.
Assessments:  These are short quizzes, most are 20 questions, no time limit.  You can submit these assessments after the due date with the penalty of 5% off per day late.   

Extra Credit Case studies: Case studies cover the concepts as used in industry.  Some are written, some are videos.  They can be submitted after the due date with the 5% off per day late penalty.  Each case study is worth a maximum of 1 point.
Application Based Activities (ABAs) – these help you review concepts in a more hands-on manner.  These are optional, not required and do not earn any points.
NOTE:  When you complete an activity – be sure to SUBMIT it, otherwise it will be marked ‘in-progress’
Projects: This class has considerable hands-on / project assignments.  Most times you’ll do a quick tutorial  project first for 10 points, then apply the skills to a second 100-point project and as time allows, finish up with a shorter project (40 points) of your choosing, demonstrating the skills learned. The 10-point projects teach all the skills necessary for the other required projects.  If you come for TA or instructor help on a 100-point or 40-point project, we’ll ask to first see your completed corresponding 10-point project.   Projects are submitted via Canvas.  (HTML projects must also be submitted to the USF server).    Projects can be submitted late to Canvas with the 5% penalty per day late penalty.  
Ending Survey Activity – This is a quick survey about the course.  It is different from the Oasis course evaluation.  This asks you free response questions, so I can read your comments and make improvements.  I wait until all grades are posted and remove all identifiers before reading the responses.

Covid-19 Procedures
As Covid policies are quite fluid, please check with the USF website for the latest recommendations. 

Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx

Course Policies: 
Office Hours: MS Teams will be used for all office hours and links to these sessions will be on the Canvas home page.  It will be up to students to attend office hours as needed in order to ensure a successful learning experience. 
Due dates / times – Late dates / times:  Canvas is the official clock for turning in work – and the due date time is 11:59:00pm Eastern Standard Time (not 11:59:59pm).  Don’t wait until the last hour to submit work – as it may take some time to complete your submission, or your clocks and the Canvas clock may not be synchronized.  Late work penalties can be adjusted if notification is sent before the due date.  A doctor’s note is also required, before the due date, excusing you from work and school during the whole assignment time.   If a project has several parts, if one part is submitted late – the whole project is considered late 
When work is submitted late, it may receive a zero grade until the assignment is reviewed and graded.  This is a Canvas feature.
Support:  The TAs and I are available for project help during the week.  I am also available for project help via email (not the TAs), although weekend email support is limited and it’s often harder to adequately respond to project questions via email.  Start early enough to beat the ‘due date rush’ and so that if the TAs can’t answer your question, you’ll have time to contact your professor.  TAs help with projects, if you have other course questions, please contact your professor.
Submitting Projects:  
Check your project uploads - Required: To do this, look at the submission information on the right side of your screen and 1) download a copy a copy of your project files FROM Canvas to another folder on your computer.  2) Open these files, be sure they’re complete, the right project, etc.  and then 3) save these copies. These are your back up copies and the creation and last modified dates will be retained as long the projects are not opened again.  
As a reminder, many semesters there are 200-700+ students in the various sections, and we spend a lot of time grading.  In an effort to get your grades to you as soon as possible, we’ll start reviewing projects as we see them submitted to Canvas.  Please don’t submit your project unless you are ready for us to grade it.  Please check your all uploads to be sure the right project files have uploaded correctly.   
Work submitted to Canvas incorrectly that cannot be opened or graded for any reason is considered late and may or may not be accepted later.  Again, check your upload to avoid this.
Work that is submitted to the wrong assignment on Canvas is also considered late (late penalty applied) and will only be accepted if submitted before the due date (or late date, if there is one).  One more time, check your uploads to avoid this. 
No work is accepted via email.  Projects must be submitted via Canvas. 
Each set of projects takes up to 2 weeks to grade.  This process is not automated; we open each project and grade it. Typically, during the fall and spring semesters there are 600-800+ students in the sections of the class.   Please be patient while we review work & post grades.  Late projects / bad uploads are usually graded after this period.
Once a project is graded, it can’t be resubmitted / re-graded.
Submitting Other Assignments:
As with all transactions over the Internet, it’s always a good idea to keep a copy documenting what you’ve done!  
Check your quiz scores when you’ve completed them.   You can even take a screen shot of any submissions or of the screen showing your score and save it to a folder of ‘screenshots.’  Just be sure your log-in information and date / time is also included in the screenshot.
Your Grades:
We know grades are important and try to be very attentive while grading and recording grades.   Please do your part by keeping copies of all submitted work, monitoring your own grades and keeping all graded correspondence/returned work. 
Canvas has a ‘what if’ feature that lets you look at your grade, enter grades you think you may get in the future and see where you stand.  Take advantage of this.
Re-grade requests should be emailed within two weeks from the date your grade was posted and before the end of the semester.  To do this, download and review a copy of your submitted project from Canvas and then email me (not TAs)  with a description of what was graded incorrectly and why it’s incorrect.  We will do a re-grade but will re-grade the whole project and any grading mistakes or omissions (positive or negative) will be corrected.  
‘Technology problems’, including bad files, bad file names, not knowing how to upload to Canvas correctly (not checking an upload), locked files, lost work, slow or bad Internet connection, power outages at your home, etc. are not valid excuses for late/missing work – they are just part of using technology .  Ask questions, get help, do your work early and check that assignments are submitted correctly so the inevitable technology problems will not lead to missed points.  We offer many contact hours each week to help you with this.
Medical Issues - From USF Student Health Services:  ‘Students should not attend class if they are ill, particularly if they have fever and/or gastrointestinal symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as a sneezing, runny nose, sore throat or coughing.  Students experiencing any of these symptoms should contact immediately the Student Health Services (813-974-2331) on the Sarasota-Mantatee and Tampa campus or the Wellness Center (727-873-4422) on the St. Petersburg campus for appropriate medical guidance and to obtain a verification of care letter. Students may turn to other health providers as well.’ To be approved for missed classes, late assignments or missed examinations a verification of care letter from USF health services or area physician must be presented by the student to the faculty near the start (within a week) of any illness or condition that prevents class participation. 
Extra Credit is usually available during the semester.  Any extra points will help if you are ‘close’ to the next grade level and usually the place of any curve or any ‘rounding’ in the class.  Activities will be described on Canvas.  Any integrity violations involving extra credit will result in the loss of all extra credit points.   
Canvas - All class announcements and class materials are on Canvas.  CHECK it FREQUENTLY (Canvas is your friend…)  To use Canvas you must go to my.usf.edu and sign in using your USF NetID and Password.  If you are a new user or have forgotten your password, instructions/links are available from my.usf.edu to help you.  Once you are signed in, click the Canvas tab and find our class and familiarize yourself with the course website. If you have any issues, contact USF's IT department at it.usf.edu/help,  (813) 974-1222 or help@usf.edu.
Email to me should be sent via Canvas or your USF email account.  Email is usually answered within 24-48 hours (not including weekends/holidays).
Email from instructors is usually sent via Canvas, which is tied to your university/student email account.  It is your responsibility to change your USF email ‘preferences’ if you want to forward email to a different account.  This can be done through Canvas. You should also set up your Canvas preferences to notify you when any announcements, email or grading comments are posted.  Be sure to check your JUNK/SPAM folders for all class related email that may be inadvertently filtered
MS Teams: We’ll be using Teams software for some office hours and you should assume the session is recorded.  Student interactions may be heard in the captured content.   
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued. 

Academic Integrity - Integrity does matter 
Please review:  http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf)
We value learning and realize that technology allows work to be copied easily so we have a strict academic integrity policy.   As part of that, we require that all projects be done individually (unless specifically noted).  We have found that more individual learning occurs when students use critical thinking, problem solving skills, course / online resources and a bit of trial and error to work through these projects.   The TAs and I are available for project help. To facilitate learning we try to guide you to find your own solutions, rather than just tell you an answer.   
**Do not email your work to anyone else to use as a ‘sample’, or as a copy of the data or share in any way.  Do not deny them the opportunity to experiment and learn potentially valuable career skills.  Also, we use software to detect duplicated work.   It is your responsibility to be sure your project cannot be copied or viewed by anyone else. 
If you share a computer with another person (not recommended) or use a public computer, remove any project work to a flash drive each time you are done working on the project. 
Quizzes are completed online and again, are individual activities.  All work must be completely your own - no copying, pasting, quotes – just your own words/efforts.  
Course Hero / Chegg Policy: Offer specifics about your policy on contract cheating, paper mills, or the use of websites that enable cheating.  Example: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 
Turnitin.com: In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit specific assignments via the appropriate Canvas / TurnItIn assignment. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com. 

All that being said… copying, plagiarism or any other form of misrepresentation of one's work is considered cheating - this includes cutting/pasting from the Internet or copying anyone else’s projects/assignments or sharing solutions in any way. This applies to all course assignments. The minimum penalty for collaboration/cheating on an assignment is a zero for that assignment and a referral to the Undergraduate Studies Director and Muma College of Business Undergraduate Program Director.  This is applied to all parties involved.  Maximum penalties may include an F or F/F in the course (instructor’s discretion).  Students who have been referred for an academic integrity violation in a prior class will be subject to an F/F in this class in accordance with USF’s academic integrity policies and after discussions with pertinent faculty members, and Muma College of Business Undergraduate Advising.
College of Business policies do not allow students to drop classes due to academic integrity violations.  Students will be added back into classes in these situations. 

I do not enjoy the ‘academic dishonesty’ part of teaching – it is emotional for all & takes A LOT of time to deal with.  However, I do feel very strongly about honesty/integrity and I do uphold University/my course policies on cheating.  One survey of IT professionals found that the key attribute they looked for in new hires was integrity (above technical skills). I treat academic dishonesty very seriously and will fail students who cheat on tests or turn in work that is not completely their own.  See “Academic Dishonesty” in the Undergraduate Catalog for further discussion.  

If you have questions on academic integrity issues relating individual assignments or tests – please contact me, I’ll be glad to discuss this in more detail.  

Additional USF Policies / Resources
Standard University Policies.  Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx 
Emergency Operations: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  It’s the responsibility of each student to monitor our Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information. 
Incomplete Policy: An ‘I’ grade may be used for situations where a student has an unforeseeable emergency at the end of the semester (after the withdrawal date), has a C grade or better in the class and only has a small part of the course to complete. Written approved documentation is required.   Incompletes can’t be used if a student is busy, falls behind or is not doing well.  Students doing poorly in a course should withdraw from the class or risk receiving a poor/failing grade.  See our schedule for the last day to withdraw from the class. 
Religious Holy Days: Students who must miss a scheduled test due to the observation of a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, during the first 2 weeks of class. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf
Students with Disabilities: Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the office of Students with Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.
Disruption of the Academic Process - http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf
Use of notes and recordings:  Please review the official USF policy on this for more info, but the policy states that notes, recordings, handouts and other material provided by the instructor cannot be exchanged or distributed for commercial purposes or for any purpose not related to a student's study or enrollment without written authorization of the instructor.
Tutoring Hub -  For more information, email asctampa@usf.edu
Writing Studio - For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu 
Counseling Center - The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online. 
Center for Victim Advocacy  - Example: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online. 
Class and Online Courtesy – Please review the ‘Getting Started’ section of Canvas and note the two sections: 1) “What Can You Expect From the TAs and Me”  and 2) “What the TAs and I Expect from You”.  
Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. 

In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. 

Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.

How to Succeed in this Course
Get started right away!  If new to Canvas, read Canvas Guide
Review the syllabus and Canvas material.  Be sure you understand how the class works.  
Get access to the Connect platform as the first assignments are due soon.  See our class Home page on Canvas for more on this.
Note our Office hours - via a link on our Canvas home page.   
Keep up with the class.  Each week:
Read our Canvas Home page and modules area each week to keep up with class information, project due dates, any extra credit opportunities, etc.
Complete the Connect activities for each week.  
Work on the assigned projects, don’t procrastinate on these.
Note all due dates.
Turn in your projects on-time.  
Project information and resources are in the Assignment area of Canvas.
Use the Project Overview link found on each assignment page. The overview and any skill links included demonstrate skills you will use to complete the projects. There are also some basic tutorial site links available in the FAQ section.
Start early, get help when needed.   Give yourself enough time so that if a TA or USF IT support can’t answer a question, you still have time to contact me and get help before the due date.  If I can’t resolve the issue, your project won’t be considered late.  If you wait until the last minute and have issues, I probably won’t be able to get to your questions before the due date and your work will be considered late. 
Projects are due frequently, and it is recommended that you complete them as early as possible so you can get help, if necessary, before the due date. 
Upload your projects to Canvas AND check your uploads!
Be sure to submit and check your work early so you have time to get any issues resolved before the due date.  Remember, there is no scheduled weekend support.
After you submit your project, CHECK YOUR UPLOAD to be sure it was uploaded correctly on Canvas. See instructions above in the ‘Course Details’ section.
If your project doesn’t upload correctly, you can resubmit it.  To do this, go back to the upload link and submit the project file.  Then check your upload again.  We only grade the last project submitted. If you are submitting several files for an assignment – resubmit all of them.  
Once your project has been graded, it can’t be corrected and / or resubmitted.  Don’t submit work unless you are ready for it to be graded.
Do any extra credit activities available.  Any extra credit points may take the place of any curve or any ‘rounding’ in the class.
Keep track of your grades on Canvas.  Note that any grayed-out grades are considered ‘drop’ grades by Canvas (drop grades are not available every semester).  If you use the what-if feature, where you enter your grades to see your final average, be sure to enter zeros for any work not submitted.  
Suggestions for quiz preparation
Keep up with the work – don’t wait until the week of the test to go over all the material.
Take notes as you do the readings and review the page for each chapter.
Makes notes on the project concepts as you prepare for the quizzes.

**Most students do very well in this class, however if this is one of your last classes needed to graduate or to keep a scholarship, be sure to monitor your grades, do all the projects, do any extra credit offered and prepare for the quizzes. 

