Course Syllabus  
Jump to Today  
Please thoroughly read the  full syllabus , which contains important information about 
class expectations, grading information, the  course schedule, and University 
policies.   You are expected to be familiar with the  entire syllabus from the beginning of 
the semester.  
  
Negotiation and Administration of Labor Agreements  
Room B237, Monday 6:00pm - 8:45pm  
Spring 2020  
 
Instructor:   Matth ew Karlesky, Ph.D.  
mkarlesky@sar.usf.edu  
C214A  
Office hours: Tuesday, 3pm - 6pm  
  
COURSE DESCRIPTION  
Case studies in contract negotiation, administration, grievances settlement, and 
arbitration. Assumes familiar ity with the industrial relations system.  
This experiential course is designed to improve your skills in all phases of negotiation: 
understanding prescriptive and descriptive negotiation theory as it applies to dyadic and 
multiparty negotiations, to buyer -seller transactions and the resolution of disputes, to 
the development of negotiation strategy, and to the management of integrative and 
distributive aspects of the negotiation process. The course is based on a series of 
simulated negotiations in a variety  of contexts including one -on-one, multi -party, cross -
cultural, third -party and team negotiations. Please note that given the experiential nature 
of the course, attendance is mandatory and will be strictly enforced beginning from the 
first class session.  
  
COURSE TOPICS and COURSE OBJECTIVES  
Negotiation is the practice of shared decision -making. In this course we will conduct 
simulations to examine basic negotiation topics including BATNA (Best Alternative to 
negotiated agreement), Reservation Price, ZOPA ( Zone of Potential Agreement), 
integrative, distributive, and congruent issues, Pareto optimality, creating and claiming 
value, and labor relations.  
  
COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES  
Upon completion of the course requirements, the student will be able to: 
1. Recognize opportunities to negotiate and determine whether or not to seize 
said opportunity  
2. Analyze conflict situations and adequately prepare for individual or team 
negotiations  
3. Facilitate a successful negotiation  
4. Identify and implement strategies to prevent a breakdown in negotiations  
5. Analyze and learn from negotiation experiences  
  
TEXT AND MATERIALS   
• Fisher, R., Ury, W., & Patton, B.  Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without 
Giving In,  New York: Penguin Press. (Any edition is fine)  
• $5.00 in cash, brought to class for our negotiation on  3/25  
  
GRADE COMPONENTS  
• Getting to Yes Assignment  
• Class Participation & Professionalism  
• Post -Negotiation Surveys  
• Mid-term Examination  
• Real World Negotiation (Final Paper)  