 
 
 
 
Semester:  Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Days:  Friday, Saturday  
Class Meeting Time:  1:30 – 5:30 pm 
Class Meeting Location:  BSN 230  
Instructor:  Prof.  Quintin McGrath  
Office Hours:  By Appointment Only 
Phone Number:  847-420-4998 
Email:  qmcgrath@ usf.edu 
 
 IMPORTANT DATES:  
 
March 4  Class begin s 
April  29 Class ends 
 
 
UNIVERSITY COURSE DESCRIPTION:  
ISM 6021: An introduction to the fundamentals of information systems including an examination of 
information technology terminology and concepts, alternative methodologies for developing information systems, and the application and impact of information technology in contemporary organizations. 
Prerequisite(s): Graduate Standing  
 REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:   
1. Managing and Using Information Systems  by Pearlson, Saunders, Galletta, 7th Ed, Wiley (ISBN 
978-1-119-56056-2) 
2. The Exponential Era by Espindola &Wright, Wiley / IEEE Press (ISBN 978-1-119-81404-7) 
 OTHER: 
• Additional videos, papers, and c ase s tudies will be provided 
 COURSE OVERVIEW:  
In our fast-paced  world of exponential  changes, shaped by megatrends like sustainability, digitization , and 
virtualization, business students must recognize the role of Management Information Systems (MIS) and 
understand how to take the best advantage of emerging technologies for business and societal benefit. This 
course consists of three parts that provide an overview of MIS for business leaders . It includes (1) learning 
about the theories and frameworks for managing and using MIS in business, (2)  crafting  strategies to make 
the most of the  emerging technologies in your organizations , and (3) exploring  case studies of those  that have 
grappled with these topics. The intent of the course is that you learn how to leverage technology to achieve  
the greatest benefit for your organization and its stakeholders. 
 COURSE  OBJECTIVES:   
1. Provide a real -world understanding of the strategic role of MIS in business  
2. Apply research -inspired MIS frameworks to achieve business advantage  
3. Provide practical exposure to the beneficial application of emerging technologies 
4. Analyze how organizations gain sustainable competitive advantage through technology  
ISM 6021 -030 
Management Information  Systems   
(CRN: 20576, Section: 030 , 2 Credit Hours)  
 
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/18/2023 
 
  
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Understand the benefit of information systems for business  
2. Demonstrate a foundation in business -related information technology (IT)  
3. Comprehend, explain, and apply the m ajor theories, concepts, and principles of MIS  
4. Understand the need to i ntegrate technology into the strategy , governance, and operations of a business  
5. Understand the essence of several emerging technologies and how to apply them for business  
advantage  
6. Understand how to lead a business to take advantage of MIS  
 
COURSE TOPICS: This course will include  some of  the following content areas, with an emphasis on 
those areas of most import to the instructor and the class : 
• Core MIS topics : Management Information Systems overview , Strategic use of Information 
Systems , Digital Transformation, Technology Architecture, Infrastructure, Cybersecurity, 
Governance, Sourcing, MIS Delivery, Business Intelligence, Ethical Technology , and Strategic 
Planning for the Exponential Era .   
 
• Emerging technology topics:  Artificial Intelligence ; Machine Learning ; GPT -3; Robotics and 
Autonomous Vehicles ; Digital Twins ; Edge AI and Internet of Things ; Blockchain 
(Cryptocurrency, D AOs, NFTs);  Virtual, Augmented, and Extended Reality ; Enterprise Metaverse; 
and Quantum Computing.  
 
COURSE ACTIVITIES:  There are four main activities for the class: 
1. Weekly d iscussions on the core MIS topics . (Active discussion and participation are  expected.) 
 
2. Preparing for, discussing, and reflecting on four case studies  each related to a core MIS topic or an 
emerging technology. ( A single -page preparation  and a two- page reflection submission  are 
required.) 
 
3. Four emerging technology presentations and discussions , with (on a rotational basis)  one group 
providing a 10- min overview presentation of the technology, another taking a protagonist role  
(using a 10- min presentation) , and the third an antagonist role for the use of the technology in 
business (also making use of a 10- min presentation) . The fourth group will po se questions and 
guide the discussion.  
 
4. A group project  consisting of a 20-page double- spaced research -based paper and a 20- min 
presentation that can be one of: (a) the definition of a  practical technology strategy for a non-profit 
organization, (b) the identification of a megatrend that is threatening  an organization  represented 
in the group and a strategy for the application of an emerging technology or technologies to turn 
the threat  into an opportunity, or (c) the development of a case study relating to the strategic use of 
MIS with the aim of  submitting  it, along with a presentation and teaching aids, to the Muma Case 
Review.   
No more than two groups can do each of (a), (b), or (c).  
 
CLASS PARTICIPATION:  
All students are expected to prepare for and participate in class discussions. In a course of this type, you 
must  actively participate  in the learning process. The participation component of the course grade is 
awarded for your constructive contributions to class discussion throughout the course. Excellent 
participation requires thorough preparation, critical thinking, a cooperative atti tude, and the willingness to 
share your ideas.  
 
As you prepare for class, approach the work from a critical perspective. Look for interesting, intriguing, 
counter- intuitive, confusing, or contradictory aspects of the readings . Consider the most important insights, 
the new ideas you uncovered, what triggered you to think differently, what caused you to become aware of 
a new phenomenon, or what you did not understand. These types of questions form the foundation for good 
class participation.   
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:  
Inputs from  Dr. GJ de Vreede, Dr.  Ehsan S heybani, and Dr. Manish Agrawal  in the Muma College of 
Business School of Information Systems and Management at USF are gratefully acknowledged. 
 
 GRADE CATEGORIES AND WEIGHTS  
 
Activity   Type  Total weight  
Class participation and discussion  Individual  25% 
Emerging technology reviews  Group  20% 
Case Study preparation  and reflection  Individual  20% 
Group project report  Group  15% 
Group p resentation  Group  15% 
Pre-course  and feed-forward  surveys  Individual  5% 
 
 
GRADING SCALES  
 
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
>=97 
>=94 
>=90 A+(max  10% of  class)  
A 
A- >=87 
>=84 
>=80 B+ 
B B- >=77 
>=74 
>=70 C+ 
C C- >=67 
>=64 
  <60 D+ 
D F 
 
Note:  At the graduate  level,  a grade  of C- is essentially  a failing  grade  because you will be 
required to repeat  the course  if you earn a grade  of C- or below. 
 
 
GRADING POLICIES  
 Late Assignment Submission Policy: All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 
p.m. of the due date. Late assignments will not be accepted unless prior permission has been granted by your instructor.  
 Incomplete Policy : An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the 
student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time 
limit for removing the “I” is one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time 
limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate. 
 
Essay Commentary Policy: Commentaries on papers and assignments  will be delivered in written 
format via canvas.  
    
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
Canvas: This course will use USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help  
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses offered in Canvas, please 
view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF' s IT 
department at (813) 974- 1222 or help@usf.edu
. The course will include recorded lectures, reading 
assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, discussions, and homework (posted on CANVAS).  
 COURSE POLICIES: Student Expectations  
Attendance Policy : There is a live lecture attendance requirement.  
 Course Hero / Chegg Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity
 specifies that students may not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading propri etary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All USF classes use an online system for students to provide the 
university with feedback regarding the course. These surveys will be made ava ilable at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation 
is expected  and valued.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system that instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of websites and an enormous 
database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit 
all assignments in electronic format.  After the assignment is processed, as the instructor, I receive a report 
from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more 
detailed look at this process, visit htt p://www.turnitin.com .  
 
Class Recording  
For any classes  recorded and streamed online , the student’s voice and video will be included in the class 
recording.   
COVID-19 Protocols 
Please refer to the following website for the latest COVID -19 guidance: https://www.usf.edu/coronavirus/
  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-
syllabus-policy- statements.aspx   
 
USF SYSTEM POLICIES Policies are available at regulationspolicies.usf.edu
 
 
A. Academic Dishonesty :  The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, 
projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavio r.  Please review  the USF System  Regulation 
USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students  and the USF System Regulat ion USF6.0021 Student 
Code of Conduct.  
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  
Please review USF Sys tem Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal 
operations.  During this time, US F may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods 
that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools , email 
messaging , and/or an alternate schedule. It  is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas 
for each of their class es for course- specific communication, as well as the USFSM website, their 
student email  account , and MoBull  messages for important general information. The USF hotline 
at 1 (800) 992- 4231 is updated with pre- recorded information during an emergency.   
 D. Disabilities Accommodation :  Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students 
with Disabilities Services (SDS) to  receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must be 
given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the 
responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of 
Accommodation.  Contact Information: 
       https://www.usf.edu/diversity/equal-opportunity/disability- services-contacts.aspx
 
   E. Evacuation Instructions :  Please note the emergency exit maps posted in classrooms .  These signs 
are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated.    
F. Religious Observances :  USFSM recognizes the right of students to observe major religious 
holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of 
classes.   
 
G. Protection  of Students  Again st Discrimination and Harassme nt: 
• Sexual Miscond uct/S exual Harassme nt Reporting: USFSM is committed to prov iding 
an environment f ree from sex discrimin ation, including  sexu al harassment and sexu al violence 
(USF System Policy 0-004 ). 
• Other  Types  of Discrimination and Harassme nt: USFSM also is committed to prov iding 
an environment f ree from discrimin ation and harassment bas ed on race, color,  marital st atus, 
sex, religion, national origi n, disabili ty, ag e, genet ic information, se xual orie ntation, gender 
identi ty and expres sion, or v eteran status (USF System Policy 0-00 7). 
 
The Counse ling and W ellness Center  is a confid ential resource where you can talk about in cidents 
of discrimin ation and har assmen t, including sexu al harass ment, gender-based  crim es, sexu al 
assau lt, stalking, and domes tic/relati onsh ip violence. This conf idential resource can help you 
without having  to report your situ ation to either the Office of Student Ri ghts and Respons ibilities 
(OSRR) or the Office of Diversity, In clusion, and Equ al Opport unity (DIEO),  unless you request 
that they make a report. 
 
Please be aware th at in comp liance with Title IX and under  the U SF System Policy, edu cators  
must  report incidents of discrimina tion and hara ssment,  including sexu al harassmen t, gender-
based  crim es, sexual assaul t, stalking, and domes tic/rela tionship violence. If a student dis closes 
any of these s ituations in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally , they are required to 
report it to OSSR  or DIEO  for i nvestig ation. Studen ts who are v ictims o r who hav e know ledge of 
such discrimin ation or har assment are encou raged to report it to either OSSR or DIEO.  
 
H
.   Web Portal Information:   Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail 
account.  Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address.  The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu
. 
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, 
computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information 
Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e-
learning specialists. S tudents challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or 
other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a 
plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning  
Support Services ( http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic- r esources/information -
commons/tutoring.aspx) which are provided at no cost to students.  
 
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and 
internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help them develop a plan to reach their next de stination.  Students can prepare 
professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors 
at www.usfsm.edu/career -services
.  LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate 
and graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will 
work individually with you, at any point in the writing process from 
brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For 
more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center: The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the 
camp us community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, 
prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. 
Contact information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resource s. 
Contact information is available online .  
 COURSE FAQ 
How to communicate with me?  
You can either (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) call /text me, or (iii) set up an 
appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email , they should be submitted through Canvas.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should arrive in your inbox. If you 
send me an email through Canvas, I will respond through Canvas. If you send me an email , I will 
respond to your USF email address. I will attempt to reply to your emails within 24 hours during 
week days, but I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. Occasionally emails go to 
my Junk Mail folder , so if you have not received my response within 24 hours, please either resend 
your email or text me . I will provide feedback on your assignments through Canvas. 
 How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and announcements. I encourage you to check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   I want to en sure that you understand the course structure and expectations 
and have your questions answered in the first week. Please read this syllabus by the end of  the 
first week and contact  me if you have any questions.  
• Complete the class pre- work :  You will get the most from this class if you complete the pre -
work . More unsatisfactory grades are due to procrastination than any other cause , so please give 
yourself ample time to complete the work for this class. 
• My goal is your success.  Working toget her will achieve this goal for both of us. 
  COURSE SCHEDULE:  
Broad Course  Schedule  (subject to change)  
 
Date  Core MIS  Emerging Technology  Case Stud ies Group Work  
Module 1  
Sat, Mar 4  • Management Information Systems overview 
• Strategic Planning for the Exponential Era (SPX) Group Project discussions and 
group work – Identify and plan 
the project. 
Module s 2-5 
Sat, Mar 18  
Fri, Apr 7  
Sat, Apr 8 
Sat, Apr 22 Selection of topics from:  
• Digital Transformation  
• Technology Architecture 
and Infrastructure  
• Cybersecurity  
• Governance and Sourcing  
• MIS Delivery  
• Business Intelligence  
• Ethical Technology  Selection of topics from:   
• Artificial Intelligence  and 
Machine Learning  
• GPT -3  
• Robotics and Autonomous Vehicles  
• Digital Twin s 
• Edge AI and Internet of Things  
• Blockchain (Cryptocurrency, DAOs, NFTs)  
• Virtual, Augmented, and Extended Reality  
• Enterprise Metaverse  
• Quantum Computing  Four c ase studies  Group Project discussions and group work 
Module 6  
Sat, Apr 29  Group Presentations Wrap -up and Course Review 
  