 1 Muma College of Business University of South Florida  GEB 6930 – Integrated Business Applications  COURSE SYLLABUS  Logistics Day & Time: No fixed day & time – fully asynchronous Location Online Instructor: Professor GJ de Vreede, Dean’s Office, (813) 816 9800 (cell & text), gdevreede@usf.edu. Office hours: On MS Teams or in person, by appointment. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Canvas: Course documents and up-to-date schedule information are available through Canvas, so check there for the most up to date information.  Overview This is a special single credit course that supplements the current three credit capstone experience in the MBA program. It is meant for students that were admitted under the old curriculum that included a four credit capstone course. This course requires students to take a holistic approach to extract learnings and insights from thought-provoking presentations and/or writings.   Objectives The purpose of the course is to demonstrate critical thinking and deep reflection on various business challenges and approaches to address these challenges. Upon completing the course, students should able be to: • Understand the nature of a variety of challenges related to a broad spectrum of business functions. • Be able to meaningfully discuss contemporary business practices and techniques. • Understand leadership and managerial roles and responsibilities. • Be able to critically assess the opportunities and challenges presented by different business practices. • Demonstrate the ability to write professional reflections related to the course topics.  Grading Your final grade in the course will be determined as follows:  • Weekly reflection  100%  Your final grade is Pass/Fail. In order to pass, each reflection has to receive a ‘Pass’ grade.   Assignments • Weekly Reflection: Each week during the course you have to write a reflection after watching a video or reading a paper. Each reflection will need to answer the following questions: 1. What are the three most memorable insights that you took away from the video/paper? 2. What aspect or element did you disagree with or do you have a different perspective on? 3. How will you apply what you learned from the video/paper in your future behavior and decision-making as a leader or manager? Your written reflection has to meet the following requirements: (a) Use APA Style, (b) Length is at least 2 pages and at most 4 pages, excluding title page and references, (c) your answers to the three questions are clearly labeled with the question number.  Assignment Policies  2 Your assignments must be of professional quality. Be certain to check your spelling, punctuation, and grammar. Incomplete, sloppy, disorganized, or unprofessional work will be downgraded. Assignments will be graded both on content and on professional style. Late work policy: no late assignments will be accepted unless given advance permission by the instructor.  Cheating or copying will simply not be tolerated. You are expected to do your own work on the assignments. If you turn in another person’s work as your own, you will receive an FF for the course. (Note that an FF grade means that you will be expelled from the program). Please review the information on the plagiarism policy implemented in this course in the Code of Conduct section. Please sign the plagiarism statement that is posted on Canvas and submit it by the posted deadline.  Disability Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with the office of Students with Disabilities Services to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.  University Policy On Religious Observances No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious believes. In accordance with the University policy on observance of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.  Code of Conduct / University Policy On Academic Dishonesty Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis of personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule.   Students do not cheat Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course-graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, speeches, etc.; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  Students do not plagiarize Plagiarism is the intentional appropriation of the work, be it ideas or phrasing of words, of another without crediting the source. (Source: Webster’s Dictionary). “By plagiarizing, a student is, in effect, claiming credit for another individual's thinking and expression. Whether the student has read or heard of the information used, the student must document the source of information. When utilizing written sources, a clear distinction should be made between quotations (which reproduce information from the source word-for-word within quotation marks) and paraphrases (which are restatements of the source information produced in the student's own words). Both direct quotations and paraphrases must be documented. Even though a student rephrases, condenses or selects from another person's work the ideas are still the other person's and failure to give credit constitutes misrepresentation of the student's actual work and plagiarism of another person's idea. Purchasing a paper or copying another person's work and handing it in as the student's personal work is plagiarism and misrepresentation." (Source: Oakland University Graduate Catalog, 1987-89)  The University of South Florida, via the myUSF CANVAS system, has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service (Turnitin) which allows students and instructors to submit assignments to  3 be checked for plagiarism. Exams will be check using the Turnitin automated plagiarism detection system. For more information regarding plagiarism, go to USF Academic Integrity Policy 3.027: https://usf.app.box.com/v/usfregulation3027. Additional information from Turnitin on the use of their system is described in their manuals at: http://turnitin.com/en_us/training/student-training/submitting-a-paper. For information on avoiding plagiarism and citing properly visit http://www.lib.usf.edu/guides/avoiding-plagiarism/.  Note: Students must follow APA citation guidelines in writing reports and assignments. A summary of the APA citation guidelines is available on canvas.  Other infractions that are considered plagiarism or cheating 1. Students do not collaborate on exams or assignments except when explicitly authorized by the instructor (e.g., team projects). 2. Students do not falsely obtain, distribute, or use academic research materials. 3. Students only submit exams, reports, programs or other assignments that is their own original work. When submitting a work with his/her own name on a paper, the student is certifying that it is her/his own work.  University Statement on Delivery of Instruction in event of Emergency In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course-specific communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages for important general information (USF Policy 6-010).  Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  Preliminary Guidance Document Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually or part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty member is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student Conduct Code.     