 
  ISM 4220  
Business Data Communications  
SYLLABUS  
ISM 4220  Spring 2023  | Section 020 | Course credit: 3  
Room   : Online (CANVAS)        
Meetings  : Online (CANVAS)  
Instructor  : Zheyi Xu  
Office   : CIS2046    
E-mail   : zheyixu @usf.edu  
Office Hours  : Wednesday  from 3:00 pm → 4:30 pm – Teams by appointment  
Textbook  : Business Data Communications and IT Infrastructures ( 3rd Edition ), Manish Agrawal and  Clinton Daniel , eISBN : 978 -1-943153 -78-7, Paperback
 ISBN: 978-1-943153 -79-4, https://www.prospectpressvt.com/textbooks/Agrawal -Data -Comm -3-0  
Course objectives  
The exchange of information between computer applications is called Business Data Communications (DataComm  for short). Datacomm technologies provide 
the underlying plumbing that enable computer applications to access resources on remote computers. The primary goal of this course is to answer the questio
n “How do es the IT infrastructure work? ”. A big part of it  is, “how do computers talk to each other?  
The course is designed for student s in all majors who are interest ed in computer networking. The course will focus on concepts in business data communicatio
ns that are likely to stand the test of time. Upon comple tion of the course, students will have the foundation to evaluate and utilize most current data commun
ication technologies.  
Academic Honesty  
Procedures defined in the USF Honor Code  will be applied . Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis of personal effort. Any form of ch
eating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers cannot be tolerated in the University community . A first instance of academic dishonesty will result in
 a grade of zero for the deliverable involved. A seco nd occurrence during the semester will result in a f ailing grade for the course. This  code has been impleme
nted in the past and will be strictly enforced. Please do not attemp t to test level of enforcement.  
Submission guidelines  
During the semester, studen ts will work on assignments to reinforce concepts. The following are general points to observe  in all deliverables:  
• Please k now about instructor’s Outlook filter , send emails accordingly for priority attention . 
• Use the student manual to work on the assignm ents. Delete content not relevant to the assignment before submission.  
• Student name (s), course title and deliverable identification must be clearly stated in all deliverables and any email correspondence. This is good etiquette 
 
and saves my time in looking up relevant information. Violation is penalized.  
• If there are assignment  question s to which you would specifically like feedback, please point them at the beginning or end  of the deliverable . If your attem
pt is serious, errors will not affect your grade.  
• Assignments are ba sed on end of chapter questions. S ubmissions must be made using Canvas  by the end of the week (typically this means Sunday 11:5 9 p
m). There is absolutely no quality of service assurance I can provide on the grading  of assignments delivered through other channels (email etc.)  
• Assignments will be graded in part on follow ing the guidelines of professional communications. Sloppy submissions may be returned WITHOUT grading. T h
is is in response to the consistent demands o f all area employers.  
• All grade works are individual works and to be submitted on Canvas by the end of the day on the due date. Late submissions or submissions in other forms
 (e.g. email attachments) will be penalized 50% of the credit for the exercise . 
• Chapters have three  types of graded works  – assignment, discussion, and quiz . Most hands -on exercises will require access to a computer with administ
rative privileges . Please plan your time and resources accordingly. Students have become very frustrated when they tried completing the assign ments on t
he day they were due.  
o Assignment: this includes review questions, and hands -on exercise . 
o Discussion: this is associated w ith you grade of participation . Discussion  includes design exercise and case study  
o Quiz  
In addition to above chapter -based works, there will also be two exams, one lab, one final paper, and one project . More information will be provid e
d as we progress.  
Attendance Policy  
This course will be conducted 100% online. All required materials and assignments will be delivered via CANVAS. Students are required to complete all assignm
ents, quizzes, and exams based on deadlines documented within CANVAS.  
Make -Up Policy  
The instructor will accommodate students who have to miss quizzes, assignments or tests due to medical emergencies in the immediate family or job -related s
ituations . These are the only conditions under which accommodation will be considered in real -time during the semester. Should such situations arise, the stu
dent must provide necessary documentation before the missed deliverable can be rescheduled. Specifically, Bulls games are no grounds for make -ups.  
Academic accommodations for disabilities  in consult ation with the O ffice of Students with Disabilities Services will be provided following university procedures
.  
All late work will result in 50% reduction in the grad e.  
Standard Policies   
1. Final Examinations Policy - all final examinations are to be scheduled in accordance with the University's final examination policy.   
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExa ms.pdf   
 
2. General Attendance Policy  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAttendance.pdf  
 
3. Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days - Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the observation 
of a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at the beginning of the ter m.  
o http://www.ug s.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
 
4. Academic Integrity of Students  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf  
 
5. Disruption of the Academic Process  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
 
6. Gender -Based Crimes - Educators must report incidents of gender -based crimes including sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, dating violence 
and domestic violence. If a student discloses in class, in papers, or to an instructor, the instructor is re quired by law to report the disclosure. The 
Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention  (813 -974-5757) is a confidential resource where you can talk about such situations and receive 
assistance in confi dence. Additional confidential resources on campus are: the Counseling Center  (813 -974-2831) and Student Healt h Services (813 -
974-2331).  
 
7. Student Academic Grievance Procedures  
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
 
8. Students with Disabilities - Stude nts with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive 
academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing  the 
accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  
o See student responsibilities: http://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/documents/sds -staff -handbook.pdf  
o See instructor responsibilities: http://www. usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/documents/sds -staff -handbook.pdf  
 
9. Turnitin Privacy Policy  
o In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying information, such as name, in  the body of the 
document. Turnitin provides an originality report letting the instructor know how much of the assignment is original. Please f ollow your 
instructor's instructions carefully regarding what identifying information to include.   
o How do I submit a Turnitin Assignment?  
 
10. University Emergency Policy  
o In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may  opt to continue delivery of 
instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Blackboard, Elluminate, Skype, and email messaging and/or an  alternate 
schedule. It's the responsibility of the student to monitor Blackboard site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, 
College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.   
  
Miscellaneous  
1. Students who enter USF under the most recent catalog are required to earn a grade of C, o r better, in every core class and an overall GPA of 2.0 for all core
 classes.  
2. Quizzes will be conducted using Canvas.  
3. The main mode of communication between the instructor and students during off -class hours will be y our official USF email address.   
COVID -19 Procedures  
The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campuses is our top priority. In response to the curren t COVID -19 pandemic, the USF 
community will be working together to support compliance with recommended health a nd safety standards to optimize the learning experience while 
minimizing health risks.  The Conduct Expectations for all members of the community may be accessed at Conduct Expected to Su pport USF Health and Safety 
Standards with details provided below:  
Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the safest possible non -disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic Disruption Regulation which provides for an immediate removal or restriction from a classroom setting with a cademic sanctions and/or  
(2) Student Conduct Regulation to address conduct that is inconsistent with the expectations as outlined below:  
    Complete daily screening as requested. Anyone experiencing one or more COVID -19 symptoms should not be on campus or , if a resident, should not be 
outside their residence hall room and should contact a medical provider immediately and follow their guidance. Please inform your instructor prior to the 
beginning class if your screening indicates the need for further evalua tion and you will not be in class.  
    Wear face coverings. All members of the USF community are required to wear face coverings while in classrooms or any other sh ared space, including 
specified public or common -use areas where social distancing guideline s cannot be followed. See this link on How To Make A Face Mask. If you have to use a 
disposable face mask, please discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
    Maintain social distancing. All students, faculty, staff and guests are required t o maintain a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained 
in all indoor and outdoor spaces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet (about 2 arms’ length) from othe r people, do not gather in groups, 
stay out of crowded  places and avoid mass gatherings. See the CDC for information on Social Distancing. Please sit in only designated areas in cl ass and do not 
move chairs or desks in classrooms or common spaces.  
    Practice good hand hygiene. Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal hand 
sanitizers containing at least 60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations are available throughout the campus. If you see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations 
on Hand  Hygiene.  
    Disinfect your classroom space. Students and faculty are responsible for disinfecting areas within their workspaces by cleani ng these at the beginning and 
end of each class. This includes desk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant supplies will be provided. If paper towels are used to disinfect, 
they must be discarded in a trash receptable immediately after use.   
Business continuity  
In an emergency, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods includ ing but not lim ited to: Canvas , Elluminate, Skype, and email messagin
g and/or an alternate schedule. Student s should monitor Canvas for course specific communication, and the main USF  and College websites, emails, and MoBu
ll messages for general information.  
Grading  
Item  Count  Weight  
Exams  2 (Exams)  35%  
Assignments  10 10% 
Participation  10 10% 
Class Project  1 10% 
Paper  1 10% 
Virtual Lab  1 10% 
Quizzes  13 15% 
Total   100%  
Grading policy  
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
98 – 100%  
92 – 97  
90 – 91  
88 – 89  
82 – 87  
80 – 81  A+ 
A  
A-  
B+  
B 
B- 78 – 79  
72 – 77  
70 – 71  
68 – 69  
62 – 67  
60 - 61 
< 60  C+  
C  
C-  
D+ 
D 
D- 
F 
 