1  MAN 6147  
Leadership and Management Concepts  
Summer 202 3 
Muma College of Business, Information Systems and  
Decision Sciences Department  
  
    
  COURSE SYLLABUS  
Instructor:  Dr. Michael Donahue   Email:  donahuem@ usf.edu    
Term:  Summer C 2023 Dates:  5/15/23‐7/21/23  
Delivery 
Method:  In-Person and Online through 
Microsoft Teams   Location:  Hybrid  
Minimum   
Technical  
Skills &  
Requirements:   To take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate 
proficiency in basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and  
meet the computer system requirements listed here:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative‐
education/resources/studen tservices/technical‐requirements.aspx   
Virtual Office 
Hours:   MS Teams Meeting Preferred – Email to arrange a day and time  
Synchronous  
Sessions:  The i n-class session is on May 1 5 (0900-1530), followed by online sessions 
through MS Teams on Wednesday, May 2 4, 31, June 7, 14, 21, 28, Jul 5, July 
12, from 7:00 pm-8:30  pm u nless otherwise agreed by students and 
instructor.  
  
As a student, your participation in live class discussions is recorded.   These 
recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class  to assist 
those who cannot attend the live session or serve as a resource for those who 
would like to review the content  presented.  
  
  Welcome  
Welcome to MAN 6147 for Summer 202 3!  I am excited to meet everyone and spend the 
next ten weeks together to learn, evaluate, and apply leadership principles to your 
academic journey.  This course focuses on leadership spanning  multiple generations in the 
workforce today.  You ca n expect to become better equipped to leverage the strengths of 
others and understand why people act , and apply different leadership principles in 
business, government, and public service .  In addition, you will assess your leadership style, 
values, and emo tions toward  others.  Finally, I feel the course will help you employ 
empathetic skills to better motivate others in any work environment .    
2    
  University Course Description  
It provides a foundation for the study of processes of leadership in organization s and 
society.   It presents an overview of various leadership concepts , such as the personal 
values of leaders and leadership organization s.  
  
  Course Prerequisites  
None   
  
  Course Purpose   
This course aim s to provide you with a foundat ional understanding of leadership 
principles, theory, and practices that will equip you to navigate leadership interactions in 
your career bett er.    
  
  Instructor Contact Information and Communication   
Feel free to email me through CANVAS or my USF ema il; I typically check each daily and 
respond within 24 hours.    
  
Course Netiquette.  Keep these in mind during our course  interaction .   
 a.   Identify yourself clearly  
b. Include a salu tation, subject line , and signature for all email communication  
c. Acknowledge and return messages   
d. Be concise  
   
  First Week Attendance Policy  
First -week attendance is generally through the ' Introductions ' assignment.  Students who 
do not complete this first‐week activity by the due date r isk being dropped . 
  
 How to Succeed in this Course  
• Demonstrate respect for your classmates.   You should consider this course becaus e 
experimenting with new ways of acting and thinking is encouraged and respected.  
• Not to engage in unethical behaviors, such as cheating or plagiarism on tests or 
written assignments.   Asking for a grade will be considered unethical behavior.   
• Keep in mi nd the following three caveats to succeed in this course: (1) read and 
watch the assigned reading materials; (2) participate in course requirements; (3) 
review materials to ensure you understand the course concepts ; 4) have fun!   
  
 Course Structure   
This course has six modules  with a combination of various assignments.  You will have a 
series of Discussion Boards, Short Essay Responses, Weekly Class Participation, and a 
short mid -term and final knowledge assessment ; the course book  is inexpensive and 
widely available through the USF bookstore or online resources.   
3    
  Student Learning Outcomes   
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
• Comprehend and discuss significant  theories, concepts, and principles of leadership.  
• Apply major theories, concepts, and leadership principles in new situations.   
• Analyze issues of leadership by applying appropriate methods.  
• Evaluate  various practices, methods, and actions for being an effective leader .  
  
  Required Course Materials   
1)  Course Book: "I Have the Watch : becoming a leader worth 
following"  paperback, May 20, 2019, by Jon S. Rennie.   
 
 
 
2)  Other required material is posted in the CANVAS modules .  
    
  Grading 
Scale   
      
Grading 
Scale    
A+  97‐
100  Exceptional work  
A  93‐
97    
Superior work  
A‐  90‐
93  
B+  87‐
89    
  
Above average work  B  83‐
87  
B‐  80‐
83  
C+  77‐
79    
Average work  
C  70‐
77  
D  60‐
69  Below average work  
F  <60  Fail  
  
  
4   Grade Categories and Weights  
  
Assignment   Percent of Final Grade  
Class Participation /Contributions    10%  
Short Essay  Responses   30%  
Discussion Boards   30%  
Mid-Term Assessment   15%  
End of Course Assessment   15%  
 Total  100% 
  
 Assignments  
Each Module outlines the weekly due outs for the two weeks, and we will review all of 
them weekly during our Wednesday synchronous sessions .  
  
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
I usually provide feedback on assignments the same week they are posted .  Any quiz or 
online assessment is graded automatically by CANVAS, and the score appears after 
submission.  You can access your scor es using "Grades" in Canvas.  
  
 Course Schedule  
Please review the CANVAS page that outlines our entire course.    
  
 USF Standard University Policies   
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and  misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF.   These may be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core‐syllabus‐policy‐statements.aspx    
  
 Course Policies: Grades   
  
Late Work Policy :   
Up to 24 hours late – You can earn up to 75% of the total for the missed work.  
25‐48 hours late ‐ You can earn up to 50% of the total for the missed work.  
>48 hours late – You can earn up to 25% of the total for the missed work.  
  
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
5  For USF Tampa graduate courses and USFSP undergraduate and graduate courses:  An 
Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor 's disc retion only 
when students cannot complete course requirements due to illness  other 
circumstances beyond their control.   The course instructor and student must complete 
and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the 
date it is due, and the grade the student would earn , factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments.   The due date can b e negotiated and extended by the 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate 
courses .  One semester for graduate courses from the original date grades was  due for 
that course.   An "I" grade not cleared within the two se mesters for undergraduate 
courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will 
revert to the grade noted on the contract.   
  
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
  
Course Hero Policy:    
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose.   This 
does apply specifically to CourseHero.com – any use of this website (including 
uploading materials) constitutes a violatio n of the academic integrity policy.   
  
Turnitin.com:    
  In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized.   Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well a s an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with each submission.   Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
both hard copy and electronic format.   After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from turnit in.com that states if and how another author 's work was  
used in the assignment.   For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .   
  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:    
Example: All classes at USF use an online system for studen ts to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course.   These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens.   
Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .   
  
Netiquette Guidelines:   
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate.   Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect the same way you would do in a face‐to‐face environment.   Respect 
other people 's ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points 
you may disagree with.    
6  2. Be sensitive.   Be respectful and discreet  when sharing your ideas and opinions.   
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs , or other general differences.    
3. Proofread and check the spelling.   Doing this before sending an email o r posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful.   Avoid using  all capital letters ; it can be perceived as if you are shouting, 
and it is more difficult to read.   
4. Keep your communications focused an d stay on topic.   Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject.   By keeping the message on the focus , you allow the readers to 
get your idea or answers they are looking for easily .   
5. Be clear with your message.   Avoid using humor or sarcasm.   Since peop le can 't see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.    
 
 Course Technology & Student Support   
  
Canvas Technical Support:   
Include information where students can find technical support.   
Example: If you have technic al difficulties in canvas, you can access  the canvas guides and 
video resources in the "Canvas Help " page on the homepage of your canvas course.   You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813‐974‐1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu .  
  
 Important Dates to Remember  
  
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
    
    
    
    
