 
 
 
1 
 MAN 6055 : Organizational Behavior  & Leadership  
        CRN 26016/24730   Section 361/521    3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business, School of Information Systems & Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/31/2023  
 
Instructor:  Dr. Lisa Penney  E-Mail:  lpenney@usf.edu  
Term:  Spring 2023  
 Phone:  727-386-9361 
(mobile)  
Delivery 
Method  & 
Location : Online (asynchronous)  
Off-campus  Office Hours:  Virtual hours available 
via MS Teams by 
appointment  
Minimum  
Technical Skills 
& 
Requirements:  In order to  take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to 
demonstrate proficiency at basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet 
access, and meet the computer system requirements listed here:  
https://www.usf.edu/it/remote/requirements -for-students.aspx  
 
IMPORTANT! 
PLEASE READ!  All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the 
online terms and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to 
remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by 
and accept all terms.  Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this 
course before the end of the drop/add period.  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
This course is designed to help you better understand what drives the attitudes and 
behavior of people in organizations . This course will help you take the academic 
concepts and apply them to day -to-day work situations  with the ultimate goal of 
helping you more effectively engage, motivate, and lea d others.  
 
II. University Course Description  
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study of goals 
and means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
Graduate Business majors only.  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the various 
factors driving the attitudes and behavior of individuals in organizations. Using both 
theory and application, we will examine how  principles underlying management and 
social and behavioral science can be used to effectively understand ourselves and each  
 
 
2 
 other. Ultimately, this course aims to help students more effectively work with and lead 
others.  
 
V. Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Remember and understand major theories, concepts, and principles related to the 
covered topics  
2. Understand the importance of and connections among the covered topics  
3. Analyze issues relate d to the covered topics within theoretical frameworks  
4. Create and evaluate solutions (e.g., in case analyses and exercises) based on 
theories, principles, and research evidence.  
5. Apply the knowledge gained in class in their work lives.  
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
▪ TEXT: Robbins, S. P., & Judge, T. A. (2023) Organizational Behavior  (19th Ed). Boston, 
MA: Pearson ISBN  0137477644  
▪ Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.   
 
VII. How to Succeed in this Course  
Succe ssful students should follow several practical tips before each online session:  
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements  
2. Work off of the Module page to see the expectations for each week.  
3. Close down other programs and apps before class begins  
4. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi  
5. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
 
VIII. Instructor Contact Inform ation and Communication   
The instructor will communicate information to the class primarily via Canvas using the 
course home page, announcements, emails, etc.   
 
The best way to reach the instructor is either via email at lpenney@usf.edu   or via Canvas. 
I check my email several times a day, and m y goal is to respond within 24 hours. 
Occasionally, I do get behind or emails get buried in my inbox . In the event students do 
not get a respons e from me within 48 hours, I encourage sending me a friendly nudge as a 
reminder.  
 
IX. Grading Scale  
 
Final Grades will be based on students’ final point total  per the grading criteria as follows:  
 
Final Letter Grades  Grading Criteria  Final point total  
A+ 97.00% and above  276-285 
A 93.00% -96.99%  265-275 
A- 90.00 - 92.99%  256-264  
 
 
3 
 B+ 87.00 - 89.99%  248-255 
B 83.00 - 86.99%  236-247 
B- 80.00 - 82.99%  228-235 
C+ 77.00 - 79.99%  219-227 
C 73.00 - 76.99%  208-218 
C- 70.00 - 72.99%  199-207 
D+ 67.00 - 69.99%  191-198 
D 63.00 - 66.99%  179-190 
D- 60.00 - 62.99%  171-178 
F Below 60%  <171  
 
NOTE ABOUT GRADES : Over the years, the meaning of grades has become distorted by 
grade inflation (the tendency of some teachers to give artificially high grades).  This has 
led many students to consider anything less than an “A” as unsatisfactory.  However, in 
this class, a “B” represents a good grade and “A ’s” are reserved for truly extraordinary 
accomplishments.  
 
X. Grade Categories and Weights   
 
ASSIGNMENT  TOTAL 
POINTS  PERCENT 
OF FINAL 
GRADE  
Chapter Quizzes (1 1 @ 5 pts each)  55 pts 19.3 % 
Module Quizzes (1 1 @ 5 pts each)  55 pts 19.3 % 
Discussion Posts (5 @ 10 pts each)  50 pts  17.5 % 
Behavior Analysis Reflections (3 @ 25 pts each)  75 pts 26.3 % 
Leadership Take -Aways Presentation  50 pts 17.5 % 
TOTAL  285 pts 100%  
 
XI. Assignments  
 
Chapter  Quizzes  (11 @ 5 pts each; 55 pts total)  
Eleven  online quizzes (true/false, multiple choice) will cover the assigned textbook 
chapters . Each quiz is worth 10 points and will be open -book. Due dates for each quiz are 
presented in the class schedule.  Quizzes that are not completed by the due dates listed 
in the schedule will receive a zero.  
 
Module Quizzes  (11 @5 pts each; 55 pts total)  
Each module will contain a quiz covering the lecture videos and any the supplemental 
readings and videos for the module.  Due dates for each quiz are presented in the class 
schedule.  Quizzes that are not completed by the due dates listed in the schedule will 
receive a zero.   
 
Discussion Posts  (5 @ 10 pts each; 50 pts total )  
 
 
4 
 Details will be provided on the Canvas Module page s. Please see the module associated 
with each discussion post (see schedule below) for more information.  
 
Behavior Analysis Reflections ( 3 @ 25 pts each; 75 pts total)  
The purpose of these assignmen ts is to provide students with an opportunity to 
demonstrate their ability to understand and apply various concepts from class in order to 
develop their social skills. To that end, these three  behavior analysis reflection 
assignments will require you to reflect on and analyze your experiences with others and 
your own behavior applying concepts from class.    
 
Leadership Take -Aways Presentation ( 50pts) 
The purpose of this assignment is for studen ts to demonstrate their speaking skills and 
learning via brief p-presentation  (maximum 5 min utes ). Details regarding this assignment 
can be found on Canvas.  
 
Extra Credit Policy  
Students may earn e xtra credit by participating in research studies coordinated by the 
Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation (CMSI) Lab. For every 15 -minute study you 
complete, you will earn 1 point of extra credit toward your final grade. You can complete 
up to two hour s of research studies to earn a maximum of 10 points of extra credit  toward 
your final grade.  See Canvas for more information.  
 
XII. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 
hours of the date received. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one 
week of the posted deadline. Graded materials in this course will be returned individually 
via Canvas. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in  Canvas.  
  
 
 
5 
 XIII. Course Schedule  
The instructor reserves the right to change the syllabus as necessary. Students are responsible for changes announced in clas s 
or through Canvas.  
 
Module  Starts 
Week of  Topic  Deliverables  Due Date  
1 
 Feb. 6  Introduction & Overview of OB  
Perception & Individual Decision -
Making  
(Ch 1, 6)  First Day Attendance Quiz  
Introduce Yourself Discussion Post  
Chapter Quiz #1  
Module Quiz #1  
Behavior Analysis Reflection #1  Sunday, Feb. 12 
@11:59pm  
2 
 Feb. 13  Personality , Organizational Culture  
Diversity and Inclusion   
(Ch 2, 5, 16)  
 Chapter Quiz #2  
Module Quiz #2  
Discussion Post  #1 – Values & Our 
Micro -Cultural Lenses  
 Sunday , Feb. 19 
@11:59pm  
 
3 
 Feb. 20  Employee Attitudes, Emotions, & 
Moods  
(Ch 3, 4)  Chapter Quiz #3  
Module Quiz #3  
Discussion Post #2 - Reflection  Sunday , Feb. 26 
@11:59pm  
 
4 
 Feb. 27  Motivation Concepts   
(Ch 7)   
 Chapter Quiz # 4 
Module Quiz # 4 
 Sunday , March 5 
@11:59pm  
 
5 
 Mar. 6  Motivation Application  
(Ch 8)  
Eric Mosley Podcast  Chapter Quiz # 5 
Module Quiz # 5 
Discussion Post #3 –  
Appreciation  Sunday , March 12 
@11:59pm  
  
 
 
6 
 6 Mar. 13  Spring Break  
7 Mar. 20  Foundations of Group Behavior & 
Work Teams  
(Ch 9. 10)  Chapter Quiz # 6 
Module Quiz # 6 
 
 Sunday , March 26 
@11:59pm  
8 Mar. 27  Communication  
(Ch 11)  Chapter Quiz # 7 
Module Quiz # 7 
Discussion Post  #4 – 
Communication Barriers  
 Sunday , April 2 
@11:59pm  
9 Apr. 3  Leadership  
(Ch 12)  Chapter Quiz # 8 
Module Quiz # 8 
Behavior Analysis Reflection # 2 Sunday , April 9 
@11:59pm  
10 Apr. 10  Power & Politics   
(Ch 13)  
 Chapter Quiz # 9 
Module Quiz # 9 
Discussion Post #5: Case Study  
 Sunday , April 16 
@11:59pm  
11 Apr. 17  Conflict  and Negotiation  
(Ch 14)  Chapter Quiz #9 10 
Module Quiz # 10 
Behavior Analysis Reflection #3  Sunday , April 23 
@11:59pm  
12 Apr. 24  Organizational Change and Stress 
Management   
(Ch 18) Chapter Quiz #1 1 
Module Quiz #1 1 
Leadership Take -Aways 
Presentation  Friday , April 28 
@11:59pm  
  
 
 
7 
  
XIV. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic 
integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious 
observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual  harassment that apply to 
all courses at USF . Be sure to review these online at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XV. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work Policy :  
All assignments are due at class time on the date specified on the syllabus. Absolutely 
NO late papers or assignments will be accepted . Rare exceptions may be  granted 
ONLY in the event of a verifiable emergency  as determined by the professor .  
 
Extra Credit Policy  
Students may earn e xtra credit by participating in research studies coordinated by the 
Center for Marketing and Sales  Innovation (CMSI) Lab. For every 15 -minute study you 
complete, you will earn 1 point of extra credit toward your final grade. You can 
complete up to two hours of research studies to earn a maximum of 10 points of extra 
credit  toward your final grade.   
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete 
and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the 
date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as lo ng as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate 
courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were 
due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer 
semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophie s can be openly 
exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may 
involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even 
offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be present ed in an objective manner 
and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means  
 
 
8 
 that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, 
and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not a ll ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may 
decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, 
you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding 
of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it 
or agree with it.  
 
Assignment  Commentary Policy :  
Commentary on written assignments  will be delivered in written format  via Canvas . 
However, upon request, an alternate delivery method can be used. If desired, 
instructor comments will be made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 
through Canvas . This approach yields far fewer written comments, but much more 
commentary in gen eral is delivered, due to the speed and specificity of speech. Those 
requesting mp3 feedback must state so when the essay is turned in.   
 
XVI. Course Policies : Technology and Media   
 
Canvas :  
This course will use USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas  to deliver 
assignments, course information, and grades . If you need help learning how to 
perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, 
please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You m ay also 
contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or  help@usf.edu . 
 
XVII. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In 
an effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, 
Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of 
sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office 
makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to 
make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via 
phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of  
resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are 
unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can 
review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
 Course Hero / Chegg  Policy:    
 
 
9 
 The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. Thi s 
does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites 
(including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic 
integrity policy.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines:  
1. Act professionally in the way you communic ate. Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect 
other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points 
you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. 
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or po sting a thread 
on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are 
shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and  stay on topic. Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to 
easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:  
1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful li ne of what your email or 
discussion is about.  
2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post 
anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues sho uld be directly communicated to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues 
should not be posted there.   
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to pr ovide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
 Turnitin.com:   
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers th at grows 
with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in  
 
 
10 
 both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor 
I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’ s work was 
used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
XVIII.  Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services 
(SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enha nce undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success website . 
 
Canvas  Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Ta mpa or emailing  
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, b y advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Cent er website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is  a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate   
 
 
11 
 students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not r equired. For more information or to make an appointment, 
email: writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 