1  ISM 6251:  
Data Science Programming  
Credit Hours: 3  
Muma College of Business,  
School of Information Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/24/2023  
 
Semester : Spring  2023 
Dates : 2/6/23- 5/4/23 
Class Meeting Days : Thursday  
Class Meeting Time : 8:30am – 12:15 pm  
Delivery method : Face -to-face  
Location : BSN 115   
Instructor : Varol Kayhan  
Instructor  email : vkayhan@usf.edu  
Virtual Office Hours : Thursdays  6:00pm-7:00pm (Microsoft Teams)  
 
Course Schedule  (subject to revision due to unseen circumstances)  
 
MEETING DAY  MODULE  TOPIC  DUE DATE  
Feb 9  Module 1  Intro to ML  Feb 15, 11:59pm   
Feb 16  Module 2  Training Models  Feb 16, 12:15pm   
Feb 23  Module 3  Support Vector Machine  Feb 23, 12:15pm   
  Assessment 1   Mar 1, 11:59pm  
Mar 2  Module 4  Decision Trees  Mar 2, 12:15pm   
Mar 9  Module 5  Ensemble Models  Mar 9, 12:15pm   
Mar 16  SPRING BREAK  
Mar 23  Module 6  Text Mining  Mar 23, 12:15pm   
Mar 30  Module 7  Neural Networks  Mar 30, 12:15pm   
  Assessment 2   Apr 5, 11:59pm  
Apr 6  Module 8  Deep Neural Networks  Apr 6, 12:15pm   
Apr 13  Module 9  Convolutional Neural Networks  Apr 13, 12:15pm   
Apr 20  Module 10  Recurrent Neural Networks  Apr 20, 12:15pm   
Apr 27  Module 11  Autoencoders and GANs  Apr 27, 12:15pm   
  Assessment 3   May 3, 11:59pm  
 
 
Minimum Technical Skills & Requirements:  This course requires you to learn  and use  Python. You will 
be given example code, but you should be able to adapt these to new problems. You will have to install 
Anaconda distribution on your computer to use Python.  
 
In order to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate proficiency at basic 
computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system requirements  listed 
at: https://www.usf.edu/it/remote/requirements -for-students.aspx   
2  
 
 University Course Description  
Data analytics techniques, tools and applications have become mainstream in variety of business, 
scientific, social and policy applications. This course will provide students an in -depth overview of 
machine learning techniques for analytics usi ng Python as the programming language and 
students will learn to apply advanced machine learning techniques using Python. Students are 
expected to be familiar with at least one programming language and will be expected to learn 
Python independently in the course, as the focus will be on applying machine learning ideas in this 
platform, and not the language itself.  
 
Specific topics will include decision trees, gradient descent methods, support vector machines, 
dimensionality reduction, neural networks, deep learning and reinforcement learning. The course 
will focus on advanced understanding of these methods along with use of these techniques in 
Python.  
 
 Course Prerequisites  
None   
 
 First Week Attendance Policy  
You will be required to make a submission for your first week attendance policy. Students who 
don’t complete the first week submission  by the due date will be  dropped from the course.   
 
 Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of the course student s will be able to:  
• Demonstrate understanding of specific machine learning methods  
• Describe different ways in which models can be evaluated  
• Build and evaluate predictive models using Python  
• Analyze a dataset using data analytics methods  
• Describe glob al business scenarios where machine learning can be applied  
 
 Required Text  
Hands -On Machine Learning with Scikit -Learn and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to 
Build Intelligent Systems, 2nd Edition by Aurélien Géron  
(Can be downloaded as an e -book from USF Library for free ) 
 
 Grading Scale, Grade Categories, and Weights  
 
Evaluation:  Points  Total  Grading:  
3 Quizzes  
3 Assignments  
11 Exercises  45 points  (15 each)  
45 points ( 15 each ) 
10 points ( +1 extra ) 45% of grade  
45% of grade  
10% of grade  
 A 90% and up  
B 80-90%  
C 70-80%  
D 60-70%  
F 0-60%  
TOTAL   100%   
 3 
 Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.   
 
 How to Succeed in this Course  – Organized as a FAQ:  
 
• Do I have to buy the textbook?  
No. If you take good notes and pay attention to the lectures, you will be fine. But, this is one of the 
best  textbooks on machine learning. It is a good source of information in this field.  You can also 
download it from the USF library for free.  
 
• Are there other sources of information I can use?  
The topics covered in this course are very popular/contemporary. A simple Google search will return 
lots of information. But be careful: not all websites provide accurate/academic information.  
 
• Do I have t o buy any software programs?  
No. All software used in this course is free.  
 
• Is there a recommended operating system for this course?  
No. The required software (Anaconda) can be installed on both PCs and MACs.  
 
• How is this class organized?  
All course materials are organized using "Modules". You'll complete each module before a specific 
deadline. Please see the Modules page in Canvas.  
 
• How do I know what to do for each Module?  
Please refer to each Module Instruct ions in Canvas. They tell you what to do and the approximate 
time it takes to complete each module.  
What should I expect to see in each Module?  
o Each module usually consists of the following:  
o Module instructions  
o Module files  
o Exercise  
There are three Assessment modules that consist of the following:  
o Assignment  
o Quiz  
 
• Are the quizzes timed?  
Yes. Please refer to each quiz instruction on Canvas to learn more about quizzes.  
 
• How do I know what is covered in each quiz?  
Please refer to each quiz instruction o n Canvas. The instructions describe the modules covered in that 
quiz.  
 
• What types of questions should I expect on quizzes?  
Quizzes involve multiple choice, multiple answer, and true/false questions.  
 
• Are quizzes open notes?  4 Yes. However, if you rely only o n your notes and do not study, you will run out of time before 
answering all questions. Study and be prepared before taking the quizzes . If you don't study well, 
you'll likely fail the quizzes.  
 
• What are " exercises "? 
Exercises allow you to practice what you learned in module s during class time . They are individual 
work  and must be submitted during class . You cannot make a submission if you do not attend class.  
 
• What are "assignments"?  
Assignments allow you to apply what you learned in module s to a new problem. They are either 
group work (two people most) or individual work (depending on your choice) and must be submitted 
before their deadline (announced in Canvas).  
 
• Can I make a late submission (or complete any assignment after its due date)?  
Late submissions are accepted only within 24 hours of an assignment's due date. All late submissions 
will be penalized by 50%.  
 
• Can I take a quiz late?  
No, quizzes cannot be taken after their due dates – unless you have a documentable excuse such as a 
doctor's note.  
 
• Can I make submissions through email?  
No. Please use the appropriate submission links in Canvas.  
 
• Do technological problems qualify for an extension, late submission, or retaking quizzes?  
No.  
 
• Can I get an extension on a due date, because on e of the following occurred: my computer did 
an update and restarted in the middle of a quiz/assignment; my computer broke down; 
Canvas is not available; power went out, my Internet went out?  
No. But you can make a late submission within 24 hours, which ha s a 50% penalty.  
 
• Can I work with others, or get help from somebody else to complete assignments/quizzes?  
No. This is considered cheating. Please refer to the Academic Integrity policy of the graduate catalog 
to see what is considered cheating.  
 
• What happens if I cheat?  
You will be subjected to the following punishments:  
o Level one violation: No credit is given for the assignment. An additional letter grade is  
deducted from the overall grade.  
o Level two violation: Failing grade for the course (“F”) is a ssigned.  
o Level three violation: Failing grade for the course (“FF”) is assigned. Suspension for one 
semester.  
o Level four violation: Failing grade for the course (“FF”) is assigned. Dismissal from the 
university.  
(Please see the graduate catalog for the definitions of these violations. Note that most cheating falls 
under levels two and three.)  5  
• I sent an email after 7pm, why didn't I get a response; what should I do?  
I may not be able to answer emails after 7pm. If it is the day of submission, please try your best and 
make a submission.  
 
• Is there any other recommendations you can make for this course?  
Please don't procrastinate or leave things to the last minute in this course. It will do nothing but hurt 
your grade. There are so many things that can go wr ong – especially when you are dealing with 
programming.  
 
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
• Email response: Students can expect to receive a response to their email inquiries within 24 
hours – unless there are unexpected circumstances. I may  not be able to respond to email 
inquiries after 7pm. Please don't wait till the last minute, get help early.  
• Grading & Feedback: Students can expect to see their grades for assignments/exams and 
receive feedback within 5 business days – unless there are unexpected circumstances.  
 
 Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed on the USF Core 
Syllabus Policy Statements page  at https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx . 
 
 Course Policies:  
 
Late Work Policy  
Any assignment, quiz, project, etc. turned in late will be assessed a penalty: 50% of  grade if it 
is one day late. Essays will not be accepted if overdue by more than  one day.  
 
Grades of “Incomplete ” 
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when 
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade  
Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not ex ceed two semesters 
for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date 
grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (in cluding summer semester) 
will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
 Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Online Proctoring  
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and 
video testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in 
the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or 6 withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  Online exams and qu izzes 
within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have 
a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled  by the student and 
that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person 
residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private 
spaces for the testing. The University library and  other academic sites at the University offer 
secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an 
appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure 
that any recordings do no t invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility 
and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns. Setup information will be 
provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about online 
proctorin g you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ  at this link . 
 
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Course Hero / Chegg  Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regardin g the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the  way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. B e respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sendi ng an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communica tions focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Sinc e people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines  
1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is 
about.  7 2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything 
personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the ins tructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore,  any issues should not be posted 
there.   
 
 Learning Support and Campus Offices   
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa  and Sarasota -Manatee  campus es. 
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services ava ilable to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success websit e. 
Office of Student Success website for the Tampa campus.  
Office of Student Success website for the St. Pete campus.  
Office of Student Success website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Canvas Technical Support   
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empower s survivors of crime, violence, or abus e  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources.  Contact information is available online . 
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Tampa campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the St. Pete campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promote s the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success . Contact information is available online .  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
 8 Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information , email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website  for the Sarasota -Manatee campus . 
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email  
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio  website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 