                         1   
 
 
 
ISM 3113 
Systems Analysis & Design  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring 2023 
Class Meeting Days: Mondays  
Class Meeting Time: 6:30  – 9:15 pm  
Class Meeting Location: CIS 3064  
Instructor:  Weimar Ardila Rueda  
Office Location:  TBA 
Office Hours:  by A ppointment via MS Teams  
Email:  weimar@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Course Description  
This course will familiarize you with basic techniques for conducting and managing Systems 
Analysis and Design (SAD)  activities. The course will explore various systems analysis and  
design approaches, implementation methods, and current  analysis and design issues to give you 
the tools needed to  analyze existing business problems  and design creative and  innovative 
information system solutions.  
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
ISM 3113 Systems Analysis and Design with a minimum grade of C . 
 
III. Course Format  
Class meetings will be delivered through in -person sessions. However, virtual meetings via MS 
Teams may be scheduled upon any contingency, and students will be notified wit h anticipation.  
 
IV. Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:  
• recognize a system development life cycle  
• determine the req uirements of an information system using various information gathering 
techniques  
• conduct a feasibility study to assess the technical, economic, and organizational feasibility of an information system development project.  
• create a Use Case to describe syst ems functionality  
• describe system processes using Process Modeling  
• model system data created or stored by an information system and how to manage that data for reporting and analytics  
• recognize principles of user interface design  
• describe how to manage imp lementation and programming processes  
 
 
2 V. Course Objective  
 
This course is designed for undergraduate information systems students, as well as other 
interested business students. Students will be provided with the skills and an understanding of the 
methodologies used in the analysis and design of information systems with an emphasis on 
providing a creative information system solution to a business problem or opportunity.  
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Dennis, A., Wixom, B. H., &  Roth, R. M. (2008).  Systems analysis and design. 6th Edition, 
Wiley.  
ISBN: 978-0-357-41974 -8. 
 
VII. Communication  
Communications will be handled via email and Canvas messages.  
 
VIII. Grading Scale  
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
98 – 100%  
92 – 97 
90 – 91 
88 – 89 
82 – 87 
80 – 81 A+ 
A 
A- 
B+ 
B 
B- 78 – 79 
72 – 77 
70 – 71 
68 – 69 
62 – 67 
60 - 61 
< 60  C+ 
C 
C- 
D+ 
D 
D- 
F 
 
 
IX. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  
First Day Attendance  5% 
Assignments  50% 
Midterm Exam  20% 
Final Exam  25% 
 
Assignments  
Homework assignments will allow students to improve their skills and reinforce the knowledge acquired through the class lectures.  The main goal is that students  implement their understanding 
of the concepts covered during the lecture. The tentative number of homework  assignments is 5, 
but this number may vary depending on the course progress.  
 Exams  
Please note exams will be delivered on the  specified dates and times ( in the below section ).  If you 
miss an exam, you will receive a zero on that exam – unless you have a documentable excuse such 
as a doctor's note. All other requirements of this course will be completed online.  
 
 
  
 
3 X. Course Schedule  
 
Week  Date  Chapter  SDLC  Topic  
1 9-Jan 1 Planning Introduction:  
(1) Systems Development Life Cycle  
(2) Project Selection and Management  
 
Tutorial: MS Visio & MS Project Setup  
2 16-Jan     No class (Holiday)  
3 23-Jan 2 Planning (1) Project Management (PM) Tools  
(2) PM Practical Problems  
4 30-Jan 2 Planning  In-class Assignment: Assignment 1  
5 6-Feb 2 Planning  Feasibility Analysis  
6 13-Feb 2 Planning  In-class Assignment: Assignment 2  
7 20-Feb 4 Analysis  Use Cases  
UML Diagrams  
8 27-Feb 1, 2, 4    Exam Review  
9 6-Mar     Exam 1:  Midterm  
  13-Mar      Spring Break  
10 20-Mar 9 Analysis  (1) Data Flow Diagrams (DFD)  
(2) Structure Diagrams  (3) Assignment (3)  
11 27-Mar 5 Analysis  (1) Data Modeling  
(2) Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD)  
12 3-Apr 5 Analysis  (1) Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD): Practical Problems  
(2) Assignment 4  
13 10-Apr 10 Design  (1) Data Storage Design  
(2) SQL introduction  
14 17-Apr   Implementation  Assignment (5) - Study Case  
Pre-assignment report  
15 24-Apr 5, 9, 10   Case Discussion  
Exam Review  
16 1-May      Exam 2: Final - Comprehensive  
Time: 5:30 - 7:30 pm  
Date: 5/1  
 * Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
 
XI. Course Policies: Grades (include  sections  as applicable  to your course ) 
  
 
4 WARNING: There is NO extra credit. There is NO rounding. What you get is what you get. You 
have all the assignments before you. There is no additional work available to you if you fail to complete the actual assignments.  
 
The instructor will accommodate students who have to miss assignments or tests due to medical 
emergencies in the immediate family or job -related s situations. These are the only conditions 
under which accommodation will be considered in real- time during th e semester. Should such 
situations arise, the student must provide necessary documentation before the missed deliverable 
can be rescheduled. Specifically, Bulls games are no grounds for make -ups.  
 Academic accommodations for disabilities in consultation w ith the Office of Students with 
Disabilities Services will be provided following university procedures.  
 
Late submissions are not accepted and receives a zero grade.  
 
XII. Course Policies : Technology and Media  (include sections as applicable to your course ) 
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you  
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being  
offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides or investigate online training. You may  
also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 Recordings : Some lectures, content and class materials will be made av ailable in a recorded  
format via Canvas. We may also record group sessions where student’s voices and video will be  
included in class recordings. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their  
surroundings and background is maintained .  
 
Laptop Usage: This is a technology class and I encourage to use of computer technology for class 
related activities. Students are allowed and encouraged to use devices for recording class sessions 
for personal use.  
 
Phone Usage: Please turn phones off and have them put away during any class related meetings  
or sessions .  
 
 
XIII. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title - 
 
5 ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy –  a 
confidential resource that can review all your options –  at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu.  
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
Professionalism Policy:   
Per university policy and classroom etiquette,  mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on 
time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, 
etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade.  
 Students are expected to adhere to the overall class calendar and to complete work or assignments by the due dates posted in Canvas. It will be diffi cult to perform at a high level if 
you do not regularly attend discussion group meetings and actively participate. If you need to 
miss a group meeting, please send a communication to you team with a copy to the professor 
in advance. If you will be late wit h a submission, it’s  always good to let your professor know in 
advance.  
   
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XIV. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with  Student Accessibility Services 
(SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
  
 
6 Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic 
support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success 
website.  
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in th e “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu . 
  IT website for the Tampa campus.  
  IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
  IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by a dvocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation , prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XV. Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/cale ndars/   