 
 
1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester: Spring 2022  
Class Meeting Days: None  
Class Meeting Location: Online   
Instructor:  Dr. Doreen MacAulay  
Office Location:  Virtual ( MS Teams )  
Office Hours  for Dr. MacAulay:  M W F 9:15 -10:15a m (Please make an a ppointment  by 
emailing macaulay1@usf.edu)  
Phone Number:  813-974-4354  (MS Teams) 813 -203-7657 (Cell: please text before calling)  
Email:  macaulay1@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
I hope you are ready for a great semester of learning, interacting and maybe even some fun! 
Emotional Intelligence and Social Intelligence at Work is a course designed to stretch you as a 
person to better understand how you interact with others and how to find the best way to develop 
your unique self and team.  
 
II. University Course Description  
This course is designed to teach students how to master the day to day interactons with 
employees, clients and partners in the workplace. Rooted in management and communication 
theory, this course examines topics including coaching, relationship building a nd managing 
difficult conversations.  
 
III. Learning Environment  
I see myself as a facilitator of your learning journey. Therefore, I hope to create a learning 
environment where you are the lead,  and I am here to assist .  I expect each student to take 
responsibility to own their learning experience. This means different things for different people, 
but the diverse approach to learning is welcome. I want to ensure you have what you need to 
successful gain knowledge from thi s experience. Please know I am here to aid and assist you to 
ensure you get the most from this course.  
 
I consider the diversity of students to be a strength and an important component of a successful 
learning experience. As this course prepares you to fu nction at a level of excellence in the MAN 6121 
Emotional Intelligence and Social Intelligence at Work  
24488 , 020, 3 Cr hours  
Muma College of Business  
Information Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/31/2023  
 
 
2 workplace, I want to ensure you embrace the strengths that a diverse work environment has to 
offer you.  
 
Additionally, the University of South Florida considers the diversity of its students, faculty, and 
staff to be  a strength and critical to its educational mission. USF expects every member of the 
university community to contribute to an inclusive and respectful culture for all in its classrooms, 
work environments, and at campus events.  
 
Dimensions of diversity can  include sex, race, age, national origin, ethnicity, gender identity and 
expression, intellectual and physical ability, sexual orientation, income, faith and non -faith 
perspectives, socio -economic class, political ideology, education, primary language, fam ily 
status, military experience, cognitive style, and communication style. The individual intersection 
of these experiences and characteristics are also valued in our community.  
 
IV. Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course.  
 
V. Course Objectives  
• To investigate the role of mentors, coaches and coaching strategies.  
• To develop emotional and social intelligence in self and employees.  
• To develop skills to engage in difficult conversations with stakeholders.  
• To critique management co mmunication in both written and verbal forms.  
• To weigh the importance and skills related to networking and relationship building  
• To understand social and cultural diversity counseling and techniques  
 
VI. Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
• Demonstrate evidence of effective coaching and mentoring strategies.   
• Demonstrate evidence of emotional and social intelligence in self.  
• Demonstrate skills to engage in difficult conversations with stakeholders.  
• Effectivel y critique management communication in both written and verbal forms.  
• Demonstrate evidence of social and cultural diversity counseling techniques  
 
VII. How to Succeed in this Course  
Successful students should follow several practical tips before each online ses sion:  
1. Attitude Matters – you will get what you put into this course.  
2. Check Canvas and emails regularly  for announcements . Make sure you are getting 
notifications because that will be our main source of communication.  
3. Use the Modules tab  as your main page  to know what is required for the course.  
4. Do not Multi -task. Be Present.  
 
VIII. Communication  
Please email your me at macaulay1@usf.edu . If you email me at this address, you can expect a 
response within 24 hours. If you do not hear within 24 hours, please feel free to email a second  
 
3 time or text me at 813 -2037657. Please use this only if you are really need to get a hold of me in 
a timely manner. Please do not use canvas email. It sometimes does not come through and 
attachments rarely work. I cannot guarantee I will get messages sent through canvas.  
 
IX. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
1) You will need to buy one book from the  approved EI/SI book list (see canvas/module 
1/Book Review List).  
2) All other material will be posted by week on  Canvas . 
 
X. Grading Scale  
 
Letter 
Grade  F D C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+ 
% 
earned  49 50-
59 60-69 70-
74 75-79 80-84 85-
89 90-
93 94-
96 97-100 
 Not 
Acceptable  Acceptable  Below 
Expectation  Mets 
Expectation  Above 
Expectation  Exceptional 
work  
 
   
 
4  
XI. Grade d Work and Weights  
 
Assignment  %  
Article Discussions  (7 weeks  @ 3 points each)  21  
Personal Reflection Journal (11 weeks @ 1 point each)  11 
Lecture Activities (16 @ .5 points each)  8 
Tests  (2 @ 10 points each)  20 
Book Review  15 
Discussion Lead (5-minute presentation on assigned topic)  10 
Debono’s Hat (2 Parts)  
Part 1  (5 points) : What is DeBono’s  Hats? Part 2  (10 points) : Playing a Role  – The 
Critical H at. 15 
TOTAL  100 
 
XII. Assignment  Details  
 
General information   
I expect you will cite ideas and content that is not your own in all submissions. If you are using 
someone else’s ideas , you need to have a citation and reference section to the submission. Even 
if you are not using a direct quote, there needs to be credit given to the author of  the ideas that 
you use.  
 
If you need information on how to cite please see:  
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/ap a_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/ge
neral_format.html  . Your work does not have to be APA  style , it can be MLA  style or other , but 
the link is just an option for those that have not used citations in the past or for those that need to 
brush up on thei r knowledge in this area.  
 
Consider all your submission to be formal submissions. Even your discussion posts should be 
considered formal. So, be sure to have one idea per paragraph. I do not want one large paragraph 
that has all of your ideas listed in on e place.  Points will be deducted for one paragraph 
responses.  Remember you are in a business program. Concise writing is preferred. Headings and 
bullets are welcomed.  
 
Assignment Details  
(More information on each is provided on Canvas. See the module the item is due for the 
details)  
 
Article Discussions  – You will be asked to review and response to 7 articles throughout the 
entire course. There will be several options each week, but you can choose which ones you 
engage with on any given week. So note, there will be discussion boards for every article post ed, 
engage in as many as you would like, but at minimum you need and will be graded on 7.   
 
5 For the Submission , you will be asked to read the paper and have two points of engagement in 
the discussion. It can be that you provide a takeaway from the paper, th at you comment on 
someone else’s takeaway, that you ask a question that related to the article or provide additional 
information that supports or refutes the paper. You need to be sure however, that there are two 
points of engagement. (approximately 50 -100 words)  
 
Personal Reflection Journal – Each week you will be asked to submit a reflection journal on the 
class. You are asked to provide three main takeaways from the course material and explain how 
those three takeaways could help you be a better manager  (approximately 100 words, bullets or 
paragraph format welcome)   
 
Lecture Activities  – Each week you will be asked to complete some simple activities that are to 
replace the classroom participation. There will be 16 of these opportunities throughout the ent ire 
course. Each time you complete one, it will be worth .5 points.  This is a complete/incomplete 
grade. Therefore, no minimum/maximum word count.  
 
Tests – There will be 2 tests are 10 points each. These will be closed book but will be solely 
based on lecture material. There will be MC, matching, and short answer.  
 
Book Review  – You will be asked to read a book of your choice from a selected list. You are 
then asked to write a one -page summary of the book. Additionally, you are to provide four 
valuable points you could share with a team you are managing and your favorite quote. 
Maximum length for the entire  submission is 2 pages.  
 
Discussion Lead  – Each week  there will be a series of topics that are to be presented. Each 
student will need to address one of the topics. There will be multiple people presenting each 
week. You do not have to work as a team, but you cannot present the same material. You will be 
responsible for reaching out to the other present ers to ensure you are not presenting the same 
work. A list will be provided in Module 1 so you can see who is presenting in the same Module 
as you. To address the topic, you can do one of the following: a vide o presentation (5 minutes 
maximum), provide a report (2 page maximum), or use another forum of media/learning (be 
creative). You can do this exercise in dyads or triads if you want, but it is not required to be 
completed in a group. To be successful in thi s assignment, you need to provide a well -research 
form of information that clearly educates the audience on the topic. Be sure to reference all of 
your work.  
 
Debono’s Hats  – Part 1 and Part 2  
Part 1  – You will be asked to submit a maximum one -page  summa ry of what DeBono’s Hats are 
and how they could be used in the workplace. Think of it like you are wanting to share the idea 
with your team for un upcoming brainstorming session. How would you present it to them in a 
written format? (100-200 words).  
 
Part 2 - To help keep us critical, one week you will be assigned to wear the critical cap. This 
means that you will have to bring in evidence that shows the negative  side of one of the  topic s 
being discussed  (or a concept that is related to it) . This will be a ssigned to you. You will see the 
list of when you are presenting on Canvas  (Module 1) . You will need to provide a peer -reviewed  
 
6 article that calls into question or looks at the negative side of the concept we are talking about. 
You will need to provide a l ink to the article and a 250 -word summary.  If you would prefer, you 
can replace the written summary with a 5 -minute maximum video presentation.  This will be 
submitted into a discussion board so that everyone can have an opportunity to engage with your 
content.  
 
   
 
7 XIII. Course Schedule * 
M Topics  Deliverable List  Due 
1  Introduction: The art and science of 
navigating social complexities 
as a manager  Lecture Activities; Personal Reflection  F12 
2 Emotional Intelligence: Developing 
self Lecture Activities; Discussion1; 
Personal Reflection  F19 
3 Emotional Intelligence: Developing 
Employees  Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection; Check DeBono and Lead2 F26 
4  Communication in the new era: 
verbal, non -verbal and written  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection;  Check DeBono and Lead  M5 
5 Active listening skills and 
employee counseling  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection  M12 
Test 1  
Module 6 - Spring Break March 1 3-19 
7 Mentoring and coaching  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion ; Personal 
Reflection  M26 
8 Having difficult conversations & 
addressing grievances  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection;  Check DeBono and Lead  A2 
9 
 Relationship building at work: 
networking within the workplace  Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection;  Check DeBono and Lead  A9 
10 The art of giving and receiving 
feedback  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection; Check DeBono and Lead  A16 
11 Problem solving with employees  
 Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection; Check DeBono and Lead  A23 
Test 2  
12 Sharpening the Saw – Bringing it 
all together  Lecture Activities; Discussion; Personal 
Reflection ; Check DeBono and Lead  A30 
  Book review  A30 
 
1 Discussion = Article Discussions; You need to complete 7 throughout the semester. There are multiple 
opportunities in each module.  
2 Each week different people will be assigned to complete the discussion lead and the Debono’s Hat exercise. See 
Canvas for you date.   
 
8 XIV. Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XV. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work:  
You will receive 75% for work passed  in up to 24 hours late. You will receive 50% for work 
passed in after 24 hours. To receive an excused late submission, you must provide the professor 
with documentation to verify extenuating circumstances (hospitalization, death in the family).  
 
Incomplete Policy:  
An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be awarded to a student only when a 
small portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning 
a passing grade.  
 
Basis for Grades:  
The following is the summary of the requirements for this course. See Canvas for further detail.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete":  
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is 
incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for 
removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time 
limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or 
gradu ation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one 
academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” 
or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
XVI. Course Policies : Technology and Media   
Email : Class communications will happen through canvas email of the announcements section. 
Please be sure you are receiving your emails from canvas. If you email your TA or the instructor, 
you should receive a response within 24 (weekdays) - 48 hours (weekends). If you have not 
received a message, please feel free to follow -up with the individual .  
 
Canvas : Canvas will be your main source of materials for this course. Please be sure to sign into 
the class canvas site. If you need help learning how to perform vario us tasks related to this 
course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the 
Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or 
help@usf.edu . 
   
 
9 XVII. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of th ese website s (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made av ailable at the end of the semester, 
and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation 
is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated sys tem which instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment  with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, 
you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is 
processed, as instructor I receive a r eport from turnitin.com that states if and how another 
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
XVIII.  Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Tutoring  Hub  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF undergraduates. Appointments 
are recommended, but not required. For more information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the 
Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any point in the 
writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are reco mmended, but not required. 
For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing 
culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student 
academic and personal success. Contact information is available online .  
 
Center for V ictim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting 
the restoration of decision making, by advocatin g for their rights, and by offering support and 
resources. Contact information is available online .  
 
  