




Welcome!
First and foremost, I hope you are all keeping healthy and safe in these challenging times. Beyond that, I want to welcome you to MAN 3025 and tell you how happy I am to share some time with you this semester.   Keeping up with course assignments will be a challenge, but, hopefully, well worth it as you gain information to make you a better manager in the workplace.

University Course Description
Examines intrapersonal, interpersonal, group/team, organizational, and environmental (both stakeholder and societal) factors influencing the management task.

Course Prerequisites
There are no prerequisites for this course

Course Purpose 
This course will provide you with the foundations for understanding the role of management in an organization.  This course will cover general areas such as planning, organizing, influencing, and controlling that are relevant for any industry.  We will also review issues of management such as ethics, diversity, and social responsibility. 

Instructor Contact Information and Communication 
I am very informal.  You may call me by my first name if you prefer; or, if you feel more comfortable using titles, then feel free to call me “Professor Karlins.” I am fine either way.  I have already provided you with my office hours and my email address.  Please feel free to contact me! That’s what I’m here for.  Please understand I enjoy talking with students, and even though this is not a face-to-face class, it shouldn’t limit our opportunity to interact (only the way we do it).  Also, be sure to check your email and canvas regularly (at least 3 times a week) for any course updates.  I will be making regular
announcements that I hope you will find helpful.

First Week Attendance Policy
University policy requires that we ascertain if students signed up for the course are actually taking it.  In a face-to-face class this is done by a roll call on the first day of class.  Online is a bit different.  In this course you will establish your attendance by participating in an introductory discussion board, which can be found in the Getting Started Module in Canvas.  Students who don’t complete this activity by the due date will be dropped from the course. Be sure to complete the first part of the discussion board by Thursday night of week 1 so you won’t be dropped from the course. 

How to Succeed in this Course
Generally, the majority of students in my class get a grade of “B” or better.  As in most things in life: the more work you put into this course, the better your grade will be. It is critical that you keep up with your assigned readings and assignments. Please contact me immediately if you have any problems or concerns.  Falling behind in online courses is one of the biggest stumbling blocks students face, particularly if they haven’t taken such courses in the past. 

Make sure you don’t fall into this trap!

Course Structure 
The course will be a learning experience designed around your textbook, reading assignments, short writing assignments, and a paper.  Because the course is asynchronous, it will be up to each student to do coursework on their own schedule, remembering, of course, that everyone will still be expected to meet various course deadlines as stated in the syllabus, various course assignments, and/or canvas announcements.

Student Learning Outcomes 
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
Understand the basic theories, concepts, and effective behavioral practices that form the foundation of modern management thought
Explore how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, identity, culture rules, and biases in relation to how they influence management of a workplace. (Self-awareness)
Identify and describe major global issues that impact businesses and management of those businesses. (Major global issues)
Demonstrate the ability to apply key management concepts
	
Required Course Materials 
You will be required to obtain the following textbook for the course:
Bateman, Thomas and Robert Konopaske.  M: Management  (7th ed.)  New York: Sage, McGraw Hill, 2022.    Make sure it is the 7th edition of the book.  This book will be available in the USF bookstore or on sale online.   McGraw Hill has an interactive eBook for $45 to rent as well.  
Karlins, Marvin. Life Management 2.0: How to Have the Time of Your Life (2nd ed.) Iowa: Kendall Hunt, 2022 2021.  You can choose to order (1) directly from the publisher: To do this go to your browser and type in https://he.kendallhunt.com/Karlins.  You can order the EBOOK (ISBN) 978-1-7924-7320-3 or the PRINT edition (ISBN) 978-1-7924-7321-0.  The price of the digital ebook is $16.00.  The cost of the hard copy is $17.95. (2) You can purchase the book at the University bookstore.  (3) You can purchase the book on Amazon.  PLEASE NOTE:  I do NOT receive any royalties for books sold to my students!!!

Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials 
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.  

Grading Scale 




Grade Categories and Weights

Here are the various point totals for the classroom activities you will be undertaking.  There are 1,000 possible points in the course (not counting the extra credit project).  Each project you undertake will specify the specific points it is worth.

The small writing assignments (see below) will be graded on a pass/fail basis, except for a small number of submissions that do not meet the requirements to "pass" but are not bad enough to justify a "fail" grade.  Those papers will receive a 10 point deduction from the assigned paper total possible points.  The final paper will NOT be graded on a pass/fail basis (you will receive a score somewhere between 0 and 200).





There will be four multiple-choice examinations during the semester.  Each test will be 50 items in length, with each question counting as three points.  Thus, each exam will be worth 150 points.  All exams will be one hour in length and “open book” (you can refer to your notes and texts during the exam).  Once you start the test you cannot pause it; you will have one hour from the time you begin the test to complete it.  This is an individual exercise and students should not share information about the test either while it is being taken or after it is completed.  The tests will NOT be cumulative—text chapters covered on one test will not be examined on other tests.  Questions will cover chapters assigned in the text.  For the three tests, approximately 75% of the questions will come from the Bateman text; the other 25% from the Karlins text.

More information on each of these assignments, including the final paper, can be found in the Modules section of your course shell in Canvas

Course Schedule


* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision

USF Standard University Policies 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx 

Course Policies: Grades 

Late Work Policy: Unless you have a valid reason (documented medical issue, death in immediate family, religious holiday), all graded work (and the extra credit project) not turned in on time will receive a grade of “0.” Thus, please be mindful of when your various tests and assignments are due.
Grades of "Incomplete":  The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. 

Course Policies: Student Expectations

Course Hero Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This applies to websites such as CourseHero.com – any use of these website (including uploading materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 

Sharing of any online materials provided by your instructor on Canvas: Much of the online material for the course is based on the published (or to-be-published) works of Professor Karlins, and are his intellectual property.  No part of the lectures (including the duplication of power point slides) may be given or sold to anyone (including websites that purchase such materials) or used outside of this course in any way without his written permission.  Any student caught violating this policy will receive a “double F” in the class.  Thank you for your cooperation in this matter.

End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued. 

Netiquette Guidelines: 
Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.  
Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read. 
Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for. 
Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  

Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:
Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about. 
Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor. 
Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.  
Global Citizens Project
MAN 3025 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements of the Global Citizens Award upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or higher)

Course Technology & Student Support 

Academic Accommodations:
Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with Student Accessibility Services (formerly Students with Disabilities Services) to arrange appropriate accommodations.  Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an accommodation.in order to receive academic accommodations. 
Academic Support Services:
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at- http://www.usf.edu/student-success/ 

Canvas Technical Support: 
Include information where students can find technical support. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.

Changes to the syllabus:

Although it is highly unlikely to happen, the course instructor reserves the right to change any part of this syllabus if he deems that circumstances warrant such change(s).

XX.  Extra credit option:

Many of my students have requested the opportunity to do extra credit work to help give them the best grade possible.  I am more than happy to do this.  Please note:  You are NOT required to do extra credit, it is strictly your decision as to whether or not you want to do it.

For those of you who wish to get up to 30 points of extra credit, please follow the instructions below.  This will tell you how to sign up to  participate in various research studies (you choose which ones you want) which will award you “SONA points” which go to your extra credit account.  For this course, ONE “Sona point” is worth THREE
extra credit points for this class.  Thus, the most SONA points you will get credit for is
ten (which equals 30 points in this class).

If you decide to go for extra credit, don't wait until the end of the semester to do it.  Most of the studies wrap-up three weeks before the term ends.

Instructions for Voluntary Student Participation
The Customer Experience Lab Tampa

Thank you for considering participation in the Customer Experience Lab Tampa!

The CE Lab Tampa is designed to enrich your understanding of research while also providing you a chance to earn extra credit for your course(s). You may have the opportunity to participate in studies offered either online or in-person.

You will earn SONA points in exchange for each study completed: 1 SONA point for each 15-minute online study or 4 SONA points for each in-person study. Your professor will determine how much that credit is worth in your course. Please check your course guidelines or confer with your professor to confirm how many studies you should complete to earn full extra credit.

Below are instructions outlining two (2) simple steps you need to take to participate.

Step 1: Create Your SONA Account (~2 minutes to complete)
SONA is an online management system where you can view and participate in online studies offered by the CE Lab Tampa. However, you must first create a SONA account for yourself.

Note: Every student must create a SONA account even if you have participated in a previous semester. Every student SONA account is deleted from the SONA system at the end of each semester.

Go to https://usf-cmsi.sona-systems.com
Click on the light green ‘USF NetID Log In’ button.
Select the CORRECT course(s) for which you want to earn extra credit. (e.g., ‘Morgan, MAR 4933, Social Media Marketing’)
If you are in multiple courses offering this extra credit option, make sure to select each course to ensure they are linked to your account.
Click ‘Request Account’. Once you receive a confirmation email, you are good to go!

Step 2: Check for Available Studies and Participate
Go to https://usf-cmsi.sona-systems.com and log in using the light green ‘USF NetID Log In’ button.

Click on the ‘Available Studies’ button on your account homepage. You are eligible to complete any study you see on this page. The CE Lab Tampa Management team will send email notifications when studies are available but you can also check this page on a regular basis.
*You can only complete each study once and you can only apply the credit you earn for a single study to one course (i.e., you cannot apply the same credit to multiple courses).
Online studies: To participate, click on the Study Title and then ‘View Study Website’. This will immediately re-direct you to a separate page (or tab) where you can complete the online session.

In-person studies: Click on the Study Title and sign up for a study timeslot. Arrive to the lab – BSN 2404 – 5 minutes before your scheduled timeslot. Please do not bring food/drink.

Once you’ve completed a study, navigate to the ‘My Schedule/Credits’ tab from your SONA homepage to confirm you received credit. **If you are in multiple courses, click “Reassign Credit” to choose the course you want the credit to go towards.**


BEST WISHES FOR A GREAT SEMESTER!

