 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Spring 202 3 - MAN 6 774 – Executive Leadership  
3 Credit Hours  
 
Instructor:  K. Doreen MacAulay     
Office:   BSN3524     Meeting Date : Ma rch 3,4,18  & April 7,8,22 
Email:   macaulay1@usf.edu    Meeting Time: 8:30am – 12:30pm EST  
  
Phone:   813 -203 -7657 (cell  – feel free to text  or call ) 
 
Office Hours:  Virtual & By Appointment  
Delivery Method:  In Person - BSN230  
 
Catalog Description –  
This course is designed for graduate students who are or aspire to be top executives in 
triple bottom line organizations. The underlying assumption of this course is the mission of 
executive leaders is to achieve high commitment and high performance.  
 
Learning Outcomes –  
1) Describe characteristics of a triple bottom line organization.  
2) Discuss various factors associated with effective leadership including but not 
limited to traits, behaviors and styles.  
3) Identify organizational elements leaders can influence to positively impact 
organizational productivity.  
4) Present innovative and creative strategies to address specific challenges or 
opportunities of interest to executive leadership.  
 
Required Reading –  
1) Lippitt, M.B (2014). Brilliant or Blunder: 6 ways leaders navigate uncertainty, 
opportunity and complexity.  
2) Articles assigned on Canvas. Canvas will have 6 modules set up for you. There is a 
module for each class.  
 
Pedagogical Approach  
My Role is to be a facilitator on your academic journey. To do this, I will employ the 
following  
• Assigned reading s 
• Lectures  
• Research  
• Presentations  
• Class and small group discussions  
 
Class sessions are used to highlight key material from the readings, discuss and answer 
questions , and introduce new materials.  Class sessions are characterized by an informal,  
2 | P a g e  
 
relaxed atmosphere.  Freedom of expression is encouraged and expected.  The reading 
material assigned for a class will be the basis for d iscussion (rather than  reiteration ).  
Reading material before class will benefit you and your colleagues. If you are not able to 
attend a class, please alert the professor via email BEFORE class . 
 
Modality – This is an in -person class.  Sessions will not be taped by the professor to allow 
for open and frank discussions. If you need to miss a class, please speak with the professor 
to obtain material missed.  
 
Grading Scale and Requirements  
 
Grading Scale 
 
 A+ 97-100 Exceptional work 
A 93-97  
Superior work A- 90-93 
B+ 87-90  
 
Above average work B 83-87 
B- 80-83 
C+ 77-80  
Average work C 70-77 
D 60-70 Below average work 
F <60 Fail 
 
 
 
Requirement  % of Final Grade  
Engagement (2 points * 6 Classes)  12% 
Assignment #1  – Team Article  Lead  10% 
Assignment #2 – Team Workshop  30% 
Assignment #3 – Point /Counter Point  20%  
Assignment #4 – My What If  10%  
Assignment #5 – Action Journal ( 3 points * 6 Classes)  18% 
Total  100%  
 
Engagement  
Due: Each Class (2*6 classes = 12)  
Deliverable: Be alert and participate in the class.  
Details: To create the best possible learning environment, everyone will be expected to 
prepare and participate. Preparation involves reading all required material. Engaging 
requires not only participati ng in the discussion but actively listen ing and challeng ing 
others in the room.  
 
You are responsible for demonstrating your involvement in the class.  If you feel you were 
not given the opportunity to show that you were prepared, there will be a place pro vided  
3 | P a g e  
 
for you in canvas to  demonstrate that you were engaged in the learning process (See Class 
Engagement Grade under  each module ). Please note, if you have actively participated in 
class, you do not have to submit anything.   
 
Grading  of engagement  – Present with no interaction 1 ; Present and interact only in group 
activities or exercises 1.5; Engaged in answering questions, asking questions, and 
participating in group activities 2.  
 
Assignment # 1 – Article Lead  
Due: Based on Course Schedule below (10%)  
Deliverable: Valuable input on article. No written submission required.  
Details: Everyone is expected to read the articles  listed for each week . Additionally, for 
each class , there will be one individual from each group assigned to  an article for that week.  
These people will be responsible to help encourage conversation. They may be asked to 
provide a brief summary and start the class discussion on the paper. You can be creative 
with this, or you can simply be reading to answer questi ons on the article. The assigned 
dates are to be reviewed and any changes submitted by the end of the first session.  
 
Assignment #  2 – Team Workshop  
Due : Week Before ; Presente d based on Course Schedule  below (30%) .  
Deliverable: 30 -minute workshop; 1 page summary  
Details: Each team will select one of the topics listed below. The team goal is to develop 
innovative and creative workshop to bring the selected topic  to life . The objective is to 
“think like a creative CEO.”  
 
• Your team will provide a “fresh” leadership approach to the selected topic.  
• At a minimum, each team introduces and defines the topic, followed by an example 
of “typical CEO behavior” in managing the top ic (A cheat sheet of things to do or 
watch out for)   
• Then, your team should present creative and alternative methods that yield high 
commitment and high performance.  
• Your team should provide a summary that highlights your innovative and creative 
approach.  
 
Your team may choose any of the topics listed below or if your team wishes to select 
another subject, please obtain approval. Teams should select their topic early since 
selection is on a first come, first served basis.  You select your topic by email 
macaulay1@usf.edu . Please consider giving two options in case your first option has been 
selected by another group.  
 
• Executive teambuilding  
• Creative/innovative 
organization designs  
• Media and public relations  
• Courageous CEO behaviors  • Leading the Board of Directors  
• Role of CEO in building 
customer relationships  
• Financial systems   
4 | P a g e  
 
• Organization Strategy 
Formation  
• Integrating an acquisition  
• Leading a diverse, global 
organization  • Building an innovative culture, 
crafting strategy, leadership 
myths and untruths,  
• Succession planning/building 
bench strength  
 
Workshop characteristics  
• Up to thirty  minutes – Each team controls their own time  
• There is no requirement of time for each member,  but it also cannot be only one 
person speaking.  
• No reading  
• Captures attention – Humor  and/or Engagement.  
• Organized in a meaningful persuasive pattern.  
• Knowledge is demonstrated.  
• Visual aid – Creative and helpful  
• Delivery – Spontaneous, energetic , and meaningful  
 
 
Assignment # 3 – Point/Counter Point  
Due: Runs from March 18th to April 22nd (20% of your grade)  
Deliverable: 3 written argument posts to support your side; 1 page of agreed 
conclusions  
Details: Throughout the course of the semester, you will have a debate a topic with one 
other person in the class. One person will be chosen to s tart (you decide who ) and  asked to 
make your opening written statement on the topic by March 18th at 11:59pm. You will  post 
your  statement s in your assigned discussion board. You will then continue the debate by 
responding to one another in a point/counter  point fashion  – at least 6 submissions  (or 3 
each including the first one)  throughout the remainder of the course.  
 
Then in the final week, you will be given time to meet with your partner, to finally come to 
a shared consensus on the topic. You will cre ate and submit a  list of things that you can 
agree on. This list will be shared with the class to help people in the class see the different 
perspectives of a given issue.  
 
You can choose your own partner and topic for this exercise. The topics must be re lated to 
management and or leadership of people or organizations. Here are some examples of 
topics  (you can use them) :  
 
• Full transparency of management decisions is imperative for the success of an 
organization.  
• Geocentric approaches to business expansio n are effective.  
• Companies should be allowed to drug test employees.  
• Inclusion initiatives in the workplace take away from daily operations.  
• Human Resources shouldn’t be allowed to ask questions about an applicant’s 
marital status, religion, age, medical history, or  immigration status.   
5 | P a g e  
 
 
Note: You cannot use the same statement as someone else. You will want to claim 
your statement on the discussion board titled (Claim your point/counter point 
statement) in Module 1.  
 
Assignment #4 My What If  
Due: A pril 22nd (10%)  
Deliverable: Minimum 800 -word response to questions  
Details:  For this assignment you are to consider, what is the dream you have for 10 years 
from now. I want you to think about the ultimate plan (This can be work only, family only, 
community only, or a combination there of). What would/could it look like?  
 
Then co nsider how to get there. What are the obstacles you have? Consider the now and 
ones that could potentially get in your way. How do you plan to mitigate them?  
 
For this report, please simply answer the questions above.  
 
What is the ultimate plan?  
How do I get there?  
What are the obstacles?  
How to I mitigate them?  
 
 
Assignment # 5 – Action Journal  
Due: April 22 (3*6=18%)  
Deliverable: Reflection on actionable t akeaways from the class.  
Details: For each of the class sessions , you are asked to record at least 2  actionable 
takeaways from the topic discussed. All 6 journal entries will be submitted  at the end of the 
course (Module 6). 
    
 
   
6 | P a g e  
 
Tentative Course Schedule  
 
Date  Topic  Readings  
March 
3 
8:30 -
12:00  Leadership: 
Myths, 
Measures, and 
Mom entum  -Lippitt: Chapter 1 - 5 
-History of Management Notes  (see Canvas)  
March 
4 
8:30 -
12:30  Ethics: 
Declaration, 
Diligence and 
Diversity  -Lippitt: Chapter 6 -10  
-Staglin, G. (2020). “Using empathy and emotional Intelligence to 
Navigate Workplace Conflict in the Covid -19 Era” Forbes.  
- Dasborough, M. T., Ashkanasy, N. M., Humphrey, R. H., Harms, P. 
D., Credé, M., & Wood, D. (2022). Does leadership st ill not need 
emotional intelligence? Continuing “The Great EI Debate”.  The 
Leadership Quarterly , 33(6), 101539.  
 
March 
18 
8:30 -
12:30  Inventing and 
Catalyzing 
Mindsets: 
Creating a 
Culture of 
Creativity  -Lippitt: Page 127 -153  
-How do Leaders Foster Engagement and Creativity? (Heidi 
Brooks , 2017 )  
-Guest Lecture: Selling Internally by Michael Ens, Regional Sales 
Manager, Halmatro https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelens/  
 
April 
7 
8:30 – 
12:00  Developing & 
Performing: 
Process and 
Policies  -Lippitt: Page 154 - 165  
-Kerr, S. (1975). On the folly of rewarding A, while hoping for 
B. Academy of Management journal , 18(4), 769 -783.  
-Guest Lecture – John Foster, Founder, PathFinder Group  
https://www.pathfindergroupus.com/our -team   
-Two teams deliver workshops : Group s 3 and 4.  
 
April 
8 
8:30 -
12:30  Protecting 
Mindsets: 
Understanding 
People  -Lippitt: Page 166 -171  
-Liao, C., Lee, H. W., Johnson, R. E., & Lin, S. H. (2021). Serving you 
depletes me? A leader -centric examination of servant leadership 
behaviors.  Journal of Management , 47(5), 1185 -1218.  
Two teams deliver workshops : Group s 1 and 6.  
 
April 
22 
8:30 -
12:30  Challenging 
Mindsets: 
Obstacles, 
Opportunities 
and Obsoletes  -Lippitt: Page 172 -177  
-Allen, T. (2018). Are you creating yes men and hindering your 
own leadership success? Forbes, Nov 16.  
-Tsai, C. Y., Marshall, J. D., Choudhury, A., Serban, A., Hou, Y. T. Y., 
Jung, M. F., ... & Yammarino, F. J. (2022). Human -robot 
collaboration: A multile vel and integrated leadership 
framework.  The Leadership Quarterly , 101594.  
-Two teams deliver workshops : Group s 2 and 5.  
 
  
7 | P a g e  
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
COURSE WEBSITE & EMAIL  
Please  note that I will communicate with you via your USF e -mail account. For example, I 
may  notify you of new reading materials or provide feedbacks for your performance in 
class. You are responsible for being aware of any information I send to you via your USF  e-
mail account. So, if you don’t check your USF e -mail account regularly (i.e., at least twice per 
week), then you should set it up to forward to an e -mail account you do check regularly.  
 
ACADEMIC FRAUD  
Academic dishonesty is defined and discussed in the  University’s Undergraduate 
Catalogue  
at www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0001/ADADAP.HTM. Academic dishonesty of any type will 
result in, at a minimum, an “F” for the assignment and may, depending upon seriousness, 
result in an “F” for the course. I do not tolera te academic fraud, be it cheating, plagiarism, or 
any other form of dishonesty. Academic fraud soils an open and honest exchange in the 
classroom.  
USF has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service that allows 
instructors to submit student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. I reserve the right 
to 1) request that assignments be submitted to me as electronic files, and 2) electronically 
submit assignments to the detection service. Assignments are compared automatically with 
a huge datab ase of journal articles, web articles, and previously submitted papers. I may 
then receive a report showing exactly how a student’s paper was plagiarized. You may 
check out the following link and complete the useful tutorial: 
http://www.cte.usf.edu/plagiarism/plag.html . 
 
Incomplete Policy:  
An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be awarded to a student only when 
a small portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise 
earning a passing grade.  
 
Religious Preference Absence Policy:  
Students who ant icipate the necessity of not meeting deadlines due to do a religious 
observance are asked to provide advance notice of the date(s) to the instructor in writing.  
  
Accommodation Policy:  
Students with documented learning and /or physical disabilities in nee d of 
accommodations are encouraged to work with Student Disability Services and inform the 
instructor about any special requirements they may have. All reasonable efforts will be 
made to accommodate note taking, reading assignments and test taking.  