QMB 6358 Data Analytics for Business  
Instructor  
Kiran Garimella, Ph.D.      
M:      262-909-4192  
E-mail:  kgarimella@usf.edu  
  
Class Information  
Location : Asynchronous Delivery Online Only (No class meetings)  
Office Hours : Wednesdays 6:00 - 8:00 pm ET, online (Teams)  
Links  to an external  site. 
Course Description  
This course will provide an introduction to data analytics for managers. It is targeted  for 
business students and provides a strong foundation for analyzing business data using 
statistics and machine learning.  
Structure & Approach  
This course builds off the foundational course (QMB 6305 Managerial Decision Analysis) 
by focusing on data analy tics for business majors and MBA students. For those students 
who have not taken the foundation QMB 6305, the course recaps all of those important 
concepts. Those who have taken QMB 6305 will benefit by the extended treatment of 
those and additional topics  with deeper hands -on experience through various exercises, 
projects, and in -class competitions. Several additional topics will include cluster analysis 
and classification.  
We will work on assignments, class discussions, projects, and a final exam.  
Textboo k 
We will use the following book as a reading text.  PDFs are  available at the library . Please 
use this links (if you are not already logged in, you will be asked to login with a NetID):  
Competing on Analytics: The New Science of Winning  by Thomas Davenport  and Jeanne 
Harris, Harvard Business School Press, 2017:  http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://searc h.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true
&db=nlebk&AN=1798662&site=eds -liveLinks  to an external  site. 
  
Data Analytic Software  
We will use the software R and Microsoft Azure ML for analyzing and mining our data. 
They are both free! In fact, R is an open -source based software and as such grows much 
faster than any commercial software solution. R is one of the most powerful and popu lar 
software solutions for mining business data. In fact, large analytical companies such as 
Google or AT&T use R. R is also becoming more and more popular among government 
agencies (such as the DOD). R is powerful, yet it is free – this combination makes it a 
winning proposition for many companies, especially during times of tightening budgets 
and financial stress.  
Microsoft Azure ML Studio is also available through a free tier with limits sufficient for 
classroom purpose. There is a very intuitive interfa ce that allows you to build 
"workflows" for analyzing data.  
Installing R  
• Go to CRAN  http://cran.r -project.org/ Links  to an external  site. 
• Locate your operating system (OS) in the first box of the welcome page. 
(Below, I will assume that you are using Windows; all other OS are very 
similar.)  
• Click on “Windows”, then click on “base”  
• Then click on “Download R 4.0.0 for Windows” (Note: the relea se number 
may have changed by the time you are downloading this; that is not a 
problem; simply install the most recent version.)  
• Follow all instructions during the installation process. On one of the screens, 
you will see an option to create an icon on you r desktop. Check the box so 
that you can locate R quickly.  
• After installation, locate the “R” icon on your desktop; double -click; DONE!!  
Rather than using R (which is a command -line language) directly, we will use a more 
user-friendly graphical user interf ace (GUI). This GUI is called the “R Commander”.  
Installing the R Commander  
• Right -click on the R desktop icon and 'Run as an administrator'.  
• Go to “Packages” at the top of the R window.  
• Click on “Install package(s)…”  
o A window will pop up asking you for your choice of an R mirror; 
select the location closest to you (e.g. USA TX1)  o Another window will pop up. Scroll down until you find “Rcmdr”.  
o Select and click “OK”  
o If you are asked about installing from sources for compi lation, 
choose 'No'.  
o You will now see several messages inside your R window; these 
messages confirm the installation of all the components necessary 
for the R Commander.  
o Upon successful installation, you will find the following message: 
“package 'Rcmdr' su ccessfully unpacked and MD5 sums checked”  
• Now, type the following inside your R window: >library(Rcmdr)  
o Then, hit “Enter”  
o If the system asks if you want to install any missing packages, 
choose 'Yes'.  
o A new window will pop up; this is the R Commander window . 
o For a quick tutorial on the R Commander, find the “Help” tab, and 
click on “Introduction to the R Commander”  
Troubleshooting:  Below are a few links that could help you trouble -shoot your 
installation; please visit them when you encounter any problems dow nloading or starting 
R Commander.  
• https://www.andrewheiss.com/blog/2012/04/17/install -r-rstudio -r-
commander -windows -osx/ Links  to an external  site. 
• http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/jfox/Misc/Rcmdr/installation -notes.html Links  to 
an external  site. 
• http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/jfox/Misc/Rcmdr/old -Mac-installation -
notes.html Links  to an external  site. 
Course Website/Platform  
I will use the Canvas to distribute various files as necessary (e.g., course documents, 
data, assignments and solutions). Please be sure to visit Canvas on a regular basis. It is 
best to install the mobile app also to see notifications in a timely manner. In 
communicating with the instructor, please only use the Canvas mail (not email).  
Course Format  
This class will meet face -to-face and will follow all guidelines and mandatory 
requirements as set forth by authorities.  
There will be frequent breaks.  
This is a very practice -oriented detailed course. We will discuss both hands -on 
implementa tion of data -driven ideas as well as more high -level, strategic concepts of data analytics. We will leverage useful tools, predominantly R, but also explore other 
tools (such as Azure ML Studio) to cover advanced concepts in data analytics.  
We will not do hardcore programming in R or any other language, perform any 
complicated analysis, or use very large datasets. We will avoid as much as possible those 
technicalities that are the plight of professional statisticians and data analysts but do not 
add additio nal insights into data analytics for business itself. We will leverage simple 
tools that with a few commands - many through a visual interface - allow you to conduct 
sophisticated analysis without much coding in the R console.  
  
Course Work & Grading  
Deliv erable  Points  
Quizzes (8 * 10 pts)    80 
Assignments (4 * 25 pts)   100 
Individual Presentation    40 
Group Project & Presentation   100 
Final    80 
Total  400 
Quizzes:  These will cover all material through presentations, videos, recordings, and 
assigned readings (if any) that are covered in class since the last quiz. Quizzes may 
include pre -work using given software (but not necessary during the quiz) and upload of 
scree nshots of results appropriate questions in the quiz.  
Assignments:  These will cover integrated analysis of given datasets.  
Individual Presentation:  Each student will pick a company or tool and conduct search / 
research online to determine how the company is using analytics in its business or how 
the tool (vendor solution) can be used in data analytics.  
Group Project:  Students will be assigned randomly  to a group and will conduct a 
complete data analysis by incorporating multiple tools and techniques.  
Final:  The final exam is cumulative from the beginning of the class.  
  
  Detailed Syllabus (All times in US Eastern Time)  
Reading s codes: COA (Competing on Analytics)  Week  Dates  Topic  Readings  Task / Deliverable  
1 Feb 6 - 
Feb 12  Motivation, the process of data 
analytics, review of basic descriptive 
statistics and recap of statistical 
foundations: functions, slopes, 
coefficients, box and scatter plots, 
correlation  
R & Rcmdr   First Day Attendance  
2 Feb 13 - 
Feb 19  Evaluation Metric s, Cost -Benefit 
Analysis  COA: Foreword, 
Introduction, Chapters 1 
& 2 Quiz 1  
3 Feb 20 - 
Feb 26  Model building, Least squares 
regression, Statistical Inference  
Linear regression insights  COA: Chapters 3 & 4  Quiz 2  
4 Feb 27 - 
Mar 5  Dealing with Categorical Variables and 
Nonlinearities  COA: Chapter 5  Quiz 3  
5 Mar 6 - 
Mar 12  Dealing with Dimensionality and 
Missing Data  COA: Chapter 6    
Quiz 4  
 Mar 13 - 
Mar 19  Spring Break     
6 Mar 20 - 
Mar 26  Multicollinearity,  Stepwise regression  COA: Chapter 7   
7 Mar 27 - 
Apr 03  Cluster analysis and integrated analysis 
with regression  COA: Chapter 8  Quiz 5  
8 Apr 4 - Apr 
9 Predictions with Linear Regression, 
Evaluating Model Performance  COA: Chapter 9  Quiz 6  
9 Apr 10 - 
Apr 16  Using Cluster Analysis  
Individual Presentations   Quiz 7   
Quizzes and Exams  
1. All quizzes will be a combination of True/False, Multiple Choice Questions, 
Multiple Answers, and possibly upload of data analysis screen shots.  
2. Questions may include results of analysis or a visual picture of analysis and ask 
you to answer based on that information. So, it is important that you 
familiarize yourself wit h Rcmdr and visualizations with other tools, if any.  
3. Most quizzes will be open book by default (unless explicitly stated otherwise 
by the instructor), but strictly no consultation with anyone in any form. You 
are to rely only on the textbook, your notes, o r instructor's presentations. 
Quizzes will cover material from the reading texts or other articles that may be 
assigned during the course.  
4. The Final exam, also open book,  is cumulative  and will cover the complete 
material from the beginning.  
Letter Grades (% of total points)  
Scores will be rounded up to the next whole point. To adhere to consistency, academic 
integrity, and fairness to everyone, requests for extra points in order to get the next 
higher letter grade for any reason will not be fulfilled. Reas ons include, "I need the next 
letter grade otherwise my employer won't reimburse my tuition expenses", "I need to 
meet my scholarship requirements", or "It's a matter of cultural pride", etc.  
Exceptions for makeup work are provided only for true, documente d emergencies or 
based on guidance from the University due to any extraordinary circumstances.  
Minimum Score  Maximum Score  Letter Grade  10 Apr 17 - 
Apr 30  Classification Problems & Confusion 
Matrix  
Individual Presentations    Quiz 8  
11 May 1 - 
May 4  Project Reviews  
Finals Prep  
Individual Presentations    
12 May 5  Final Exam Week    Final Exam (Date TBD)  
Group Project  95%  100%      A+ 
90%    94%   A 
85%    89%     B+ 
80%    84%   B 
75%    79%     C+ 
70%    74%  C 
60%    69%  D 
   0%   59%  F 
  
Late Submission  
One-day late submission on assignments incurs 10% penalty. No late submissions 
beyond 1 day.  
Extra Credit and Make Up Work  
There is no extra credit or make up work available. Quizzes or exams will not be re -
opened in case of issues with your computer. It i s your responsibility to keep your 
computer and wifi in full working order. Widespread network failures will be dealt with 
on a case -by-case basis and in accordance with University guidelines.  
Policy Statements  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  Links  to an 
external  site.. 
 