 1 
PRINCIPL ES OF MANAGEMENT  
MAN3 025, Section 52 1 (3 credits)  
 Spring, 202 3 
 
Professor:  Thomas E. Becker, Ph.D.  Office:   C218  
email:  teb1@ .usf.edu    Phone:  (302) 383-8692  
   Office Hours : 10-11am and b y appointment  
 
PREREQU ISITES :  None.  
 
COURSE OBJECTIVES & STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES  
 
1. Understand the basic theories, concepts , and effective practices that  form the foundation 
of modern management thought.  
2. Discuss practical an d ethical challen ges faced by manag ers. 
3. Demonstrate t he ability to apply key management concepts and theories, critical thinking, 
and ethical principles to analyze and address real-world  challenges.  
 
TEXT  
 
Robbins, S. P., & Coult er, M.  2021.  Management  (15th ed.).  Boston, MA: Pearson.    (The  
ISBN  depends  on whether  you rent  or buy the e-book  or paper  version ). 
 
GRADING, E VALUATION AND ATTE NDANCE POLICIES:  
 
Evaluation of student performance will involve the following:  
 
Midterm    40% 
Final     40%  
    Assignments    20%  
 
• Exams. Each of the two exams will co nsist of 50 multiple choice questions  over the ass igned 
chapters. Exam 1 will cover chapters 1 -9 and the related videos, and Exam 2 will cover 
chapters 18, 10 -15, and 17  and the related videos .  
 
• Assignments.  Mission assignm ents involve creating your person al mission and long -term 
and shorter -term goals. The mission and goals can be work -related, nonwork -related or, in 
most cases, both.  The objective of the assignment is to develop a clear, personally 
meaningfu l purpose,  establish alignment among goals, and to practice the discipline needed 
for effective  implementation. Each assignment is 1 -2 pages long but requires focused 
attention and effor t. There will  also be several other assignments throughout the semeste r, 
and these will be explained at the time they are assigned.  
 
• Grade infla tion.  Over the years, the meaning o f grade s has become distorted by gra de 
inflation (the tendency of some teachers to give a rtificially high  grades).  This has led many 
students to consider anythi ng less than an “A” as unsatisfact ory.  Howev er, in this class, a 
“B” represents a goo d grade a nd “As”  are reserved for truly extra ordinary accomplishments.  
 
  2 
Course Schedule  
 
Week  Topic Chapters  
  
 1 (1/9/23) Management an d You in the Wor kplac e 1 
    
 2 (1/16) NO READINGS DUE : Dr. Martin  Luther King, Jr . Holiday  
Watch video of “I Have a Dream .”  
 
 3 (1/23) Making  Decisions  2 
 
 4 (1/30) The Roles of Environment and Culture  3 and 4  
  
 5 (2/6) Managing Diversity  5 
 
 6 (2/13) Social Responsibility and Ethics  6 
Complete the Situational Judgmen t Test  
   
 7 (2/20)  Managing Change and Innovat ion 7 
 
 8 (2/27) Manager ial Planning and Strategy  8 and 9 
 
 EXAM 1 DUE  ON MONDAY, 2/27/23  
  
 9 (3/6) Managerial Monitoring and Control  18 
 
10 (3/1 3) NO READINGS DUE : SPRIN G BREAK  
 
11 (3 /20) Entrepreneurship  10 
  
12 (3/27) Organizationa l Design  11 
 
13 (4/3) Managing Human R esources  12 
 Complete the Wonderli c and SCST  
 
14 (4/10) Managing Teams  13 
 
15 (4/17) Managing Communication   14 
  Managing Indi vidual Behavior and Leadership  15 and 17  
 
16  EXAM 2  DUE ON FRID AY, 4/21/2 3 
 
 
To facilitate the course objective s, the schedule may be adjus ted th roughout the semester.  
 
  3 
BECKER’S T OP 10 MANAGEMENT P RINCIPLES  
 
1. Embrace rational decision making!  
2. Promote a  high-involvement , high -performance organiz ational culture.  
3. Combat  unjust discrimination through individuality awareness and merit -based  decisions.  
4. Remember that ethical behavior is i n the best interes ts of employe es and the organization.  
5. Use the theory o f planned behavio r to diagnose and manage c hange. 
6. Develop meaningf ul goals and create effective strategies to attain them.  
7. Build flexibl e organizational structures to enhance engagemen t and creativity.  
8. Beware fads i n human resource management – make person nel decisions on the basis of 
sound evidenc e. 
9. Create cohesive, pro ductive teams but don’t ignore the importance of individuals.  
10. Become a n effective leader through good communication, h igh integrity, and  
understandin g your people.  
 
 
 
 
 
  4 
 
UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
  
1. General Attendance Policy : http://www.ugs.usf.edu/po licy/Genera lAtte ndance.pdf   
 
2. Early Notification Req uireme nt for Observed Religious D ays: Students who anticipate  the 
necessity of being absent from class due to the obser vation of a maj or religious observance 
must provid e notic e of the date(s) to the inst ructor, in writi ng, at the beginning of the term.  
 http://www.ug s.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf   
 
3. Acade mic Integrity o f Students  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/Aca demicI ntegrityOfStudents.pdf   
 
4. Disruption of the Academic Pr ocess  
 http://www.ugs.usf.edu/ policy/ DisruptionOfAcademicProcess. pdf  
 
5. Gend er-Based Crimes  
 
Educators  must report  inciden ts of gender -based  crimes  including sexual  assault, sex ual 
harassment,  stalking, dating violence , and domestic vi olence. If a st udent disclos es in class, 
in papers , or to  an instructor, the instruct or is requi red b y law to report the disclosure. 
The Center  for Victim Advocacy and  Violence Prevention (813 -974-5757) is a  confi dential  
resource where you can  talk about  such situations and receive a ssistance in confidenc e. 
Addi tional confidential  resource s on campus  are the Counseling  Center (813 -974-2831)  and 
Student Health Services (813 -974-2331).  
 
6. Student Academ ic Grievance Pr ocedures  
http:/ /www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/Stud entAcademic Griev anceProcedures.pdf   
 
7. Students with Disabi lities: Students with disab ilities are responsible for registering wit h 
Students with Disabilities Services (SDS)  in order to re ceive academi c accommodations. 
SDS encour ages students to notify instr uctors of a ccomm odation needs at least 5 business 
days pri or to needing the accommoda tion. A letter from SDS must  accompany this  request. 
https://www.usf.edu/studen t-affairs/s tuden t-disabilities -services/index.aspx  
 
8. Unive rsity Emergency Policy  
 
In the event of an emergency, i t may be necess ary for USF to suspend normal operations. 
During this time , USF may opt  to continue delivery of ins truction through methods that  
include bu t are not limited to: Canvas, MS Teams, Ellumin ate, Skype, and email messa ging 
and/or an alternate sch edule. It's the  responsibility of the student to monitor C anvas site for 
each class fo r course specific comm unication, and t he main USF, Colleg e, and depa rtmen t 
websites, emails, and MoBull messa ges fo r important general informa tion. 
 
9. Campus Free Expression:  It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to 
support an enviro nmen t where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openl y 
exchanged and critica lly evaluated. Con sistent wi th these principles, this course may involve 
discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
  
In the i nstructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objec tive manner and not 
as an endorsemen t of what you s hould personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s)  5 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is 
support ed by credible research . Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or 
criteri a. Regardl ess, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In 
this course, however, you may be asked to engage with compl ex ideas and to demons trate an 
understanding of  the ideas. Understan ding an idea does not mean that you are r equired to  
believe it or agree with it.  
  
10. Title IX Policy : Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which 
includes di scrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassm ent, and interpersona l violence. 
In an effort to provide suppo rt and equ al access,  USF has designated all faculty (TA, 
Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of 
sexual harassment, sexual  violence, relationship v iolence or stalking.  The Title IX Office 
makes every effort, w hen safe t o do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a  
Title IX report or se eking accommodations may do so online, in pers on, via phone, or email 
to the Title IX O ffice. For  information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please 
visit:  https: //www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, 
please co ntact Vict im Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options – 
at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.u sf.edu . 
 
 
For other standard policies, see:  https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy-
statements.aspx .  
 
 
 
 
 