© 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 
Muma College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
 
Advanced Systems Analysis and Design   
ISM 6124.90 3 
 
Course Information  
Course Title: Advanced Systems Analysis and Design  
Course Subject # / Section: ISM 6124  / 903 
Course Semester: Spring  2023 
Course Credit Hours: 3  
Course Duration: 1 6 Weeks ( 1/9/23-5/4/23) 
Course Occurrence: Weekly (Every T uesday ) 
Course Meeting Times: (6:30 -9:15 pm)  
Course  Meeting Location: BSN 2200  
 
Instr uctor Information  
Name : Dr. Marcus L. Green      
Office:  CIS 2070 -A 
Office Hours  (physical) : One hour before class (with prior notice) .  
Office Hours (virtual): By appointment only ; meetings will occur using Microsoft Teams  
Phone: (o) 813-974-6754  
E-mail: mlg5 @usf.edu       
 
 
Course Description  
This course covers advanced topics of information systems development. Students learn 
to manage and perform activities throughout the information systems development life 
cycle. State -of-the-art system development processes, methods, and tools are presented .   
 
Pre-requisites  
N/A   
 
Materials, Textbooks and Literature  
Textbooks (Required) : **Ensure the correct ISBN is used when purchasing the books. 
One book contains online labs that will be used in this course.  
 
Systems Analysis and Design  (Shelly Cashman Series), Edition: 1 2th, ISBN: 
9780357117835 , Author: Scott Tilley & Harry J. Rosenblatt, Publisher: Cengage 
Learning  
 © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Modern Systems Analysis and Design , Edition: 9th, ISBN: 9780135172759, Author: 
Joseph Valacich, Joey George, Jeffrey Hoffer, Publisher: Pearson  
 
  
   
Learning Objectives   
1. Model processes industry proven theories, me thodologies, an d other techniques.  
2. Understand Innovative and Divergent  Thinking techniques to better assist in system 
analysis and design  
3. Understand industry and g overnment concepts and methodologies . 
4. Employ Elaborated Action Design Research (eADR) and ot her methodologies to assist in 
analyzing processes and developing systems solutions.  
5. Understand and comprehend cybersecurity theories and methodologies.  
6. Develop strategies to test and improve deployed systems.  
 
Course Logistics and Communications  
• All email communication sent to me will be through Canvas messaging  (email). This 
allows me to repository all communications through canvas as opposed to my normal 
email. Using Canvas messaging also automatically adds our course information to all 
communications, which allows me to quickly identify both student and course enrolled.  
• For all deliverables requiring email communication, it is required to use Canvas 
messaging  (email); You will lose credit for not doing s o. 
• For questions about the  course content or any assignment, please utilize scheduled office 
hours, or call for an appointment. You can also contact me via email.  
• All work should be completed using professional standards. Assignments will be 
submitted via Canvas and submitted to Tu rnitin.  Please ensure that you cite any material 
referenced appropriately. If you have any question, please do not hesitate to ask for 
clarification or assistance.  
• To improve the efficiency and effectiveness in delivering course content, each student 
will be responsible for all items contained or emails sent via Canvas.  
• Late Assignments : There are no make -ups for course deliverables. Assignments turned in 
late will be assessed a penalty: a half -letter grade if it is one day late, or a full -letter grade 
for 2-7 days late. Assignments will not be accepted if overdue by more  than seven days. 
Deliverables are due by the end of day on the due date (usually this means Sunday 
11:59pm).  
• Re-grade Policy  - All tests and other graded material may be submitted for re -evaluation 
of the grade by the instructor.  To request a re -grade, you must submit a written request 
within one week of the date the test or assignment was returned.  The written request 
must include a cover sheet that explains (1) The specific test questio ns or aspects of the 
assignment that you want re -evaluated and  (2) Why the original grade is in error and 
should be reconsidered.  
• In the event of an emergency, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through 
methods that include but are not limite d to: Canvas, MS Teams, Skype, and email 
messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor 
Canvas for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, 
and department websites, emails, and MoBu ll messages for important general 
information . © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Course Grading and Assignment Policies  
Grad ing Scale  
This is a 1150 -point course. Letter grades will be awarded according to the percentage 
scale below.  
 
 
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
≥ 97 
≥ 94 
≥ 90 A+ (max 10% of class)* 
A 
A- ≥ 87 
≥ 84 
≥ 80 B+ 
B 
B- ≥ 77 
≥ 74 
≥ 70 C+ 
C 
C- ≥ 67 
≥ 64 
≤ 60 D+ 
D 
F 
 
           
 
Grade Categories and Weights  
This is a 1150-point course. Letter grades will be awarded using point totals achieved 
from the below assignments.  
 
Assignment  # of 
Assignments  Max Points 
Per 
Individual 
Assignment  Cumulative 
Max Points  Due 
Pre-Course 
Assessment 
(Cengage)  1 25 25 Wednesday (1/11/23) at 11:59:00 PM  
Class 
Participation  1 160 160 No Specific Due Date  
In The News Case 
Study (Cengage)  4 100 400 1/29/23, 2/19/23, 3/12/23, 4/9/23 at 11:59:00 PM  
Module Quiz 
(Cengage)  14 10 140 Wednesdays (1/11/23 - 4/5/23) at 11:59:00 PM  
Case Study 
Proposal  1 20 20 Sunday (1/15/23) at 11:59:00 PM  
Case Study Drafts 
(30%, 50%, 70%, 
90%)  4 20 80 Sundays (2/5/23, 2/26/23, 3/26/23, 4/23/23) at 
11:59:00 PM  
Case Study Final 
Presentation  1 50 50 Presentation Document Submission: 4/25/23, 6:00pm  
Team Presentations: Group 1: 4/25/23 or Group 2: 
5/2/23  
Case Study 
Complete  1 200 200 Sunday (5/7/23) at 11:59:00 PM  
Post-Course 
Assessment  1 75 75 Sunday (5/7/23) at 11:59:00 PM  
Total Points      1150    
   
         
 
 
 
 © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Course Assignments Details /Requirements : 
• Pre-Course Assessment (25 points ) 
o All students will be assigned a pre -course assessment to test your 
knowledge of the subject prior to course instruction . 
 
• Class Participation  (160 points)  
o All students will earn up to 100 points for participation in class 
discussions. Point total awarding is at the discretion of the Profe ssor. 
 
• In The New s Case Study (4*100 points = 400 points)  
o There are 4 mini case study assignme nts students will be required to 
complete. These assignments are offered through course eBook. The 
assignments require students to give feedback on real -time news that is 
occurring . 
 
• Module Quiz (1 4*10 points = 1 40 point s) 
o Every module has an associated quiz that is assigned to students. Each 
quiz will test the student's knowledge of t he eBook chapter materials . 
  
• Case Study Proposal  (20 points)  
o Students will submit a Case Study Proposal within the first week of the 
course. The case study will focus on a systems analysis and design 
problem experienced by a company. The student will be able to cho ose the 
company. The company can be of a current or past employer or another 
company of the student’s choosing. The proposal will be single spaced, in 
APA format, and be one page in length. References are not required for 
the proposal. The purpose of the p roposal is to gain the professor’s 
approval for the student’s case study focus . 
 
• Case Study Draft  (30%, 50%, 70%, 90% ) (4*20 points = 80 points ) 
o Students will submit Case Study Drafts throughout the course at pre -
determined dates and times. Each draft requires a differing completion 
requirement length of 30%, 60%, 70%, and 90%. These drafts will be 
single spaced and in APA format. References are only required for the 
90% draft. Dates, times, and completion requirements are outlined above . 
 
• Case Study Presentation  (50 points)  
o Students will conduct a timed presentation on their case study. The timed 
length of the presentation will be between 7 and 10 minutes. Each member 
of the team will brief an equal amount of time. The purpose of the 
presentation is for students to demonstrate knowledge o f concepts and 
theories learned throughout the course.  
 
• Case Study Project  (200 points)  
o This is a group project. The groups will consist of 1 -3 students. The case 
study will focus on a systems analysis and design problem experienced by  
a company. The student will be able to choose the company. The company 
can be of a current or past employer or another company of the student’s © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 choosing. The case study paper will be single spaced, APA format, and 
between 8 -10 pages in length and include all references. The measuring of 
length will be done minus references; this means a paper without 
references must measure at least 6 pages. The purpose of the case study is 
to demonstrate the student’s critical thinking skills in conjunction with 
grasping of concepts, knowledge, and materials exposed to the student 
throughout the course . 
o Assignment of Teams:  
▪ The cou rse final project will be a case study paper completed as a 
team. Teams will consist of 1 -3 students. Students will be able to 
choose their teammates. In the event team creation is too 
disruptive, the professor will designate and assign teams . 
 
• Post-Course Assessment ( 75 points ) 
o All students will be assigned a p ost-course assessment to test their 
knowledge  of the subject after administration course instruction . 
 
 
Course Schedule ** 
 
Date Session Focus  Session Assignments and Review  Due 
1/10/23 Course Introduction  
Syllabus Review  
Case Study Overview  
Discuss Final Project (Case 
Study)  
Intro to Systems Design (Chapter 
1 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Discuss 
Module: Case in Point Items, 
Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Cla ss Review: Chapter 1 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Pre-Course Assessment (Due: Wednesday 
(1/11/23) 11:59 pm)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/11/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Proposal (Sunday (1/15/20 23) 
11:59 pm)  Attendance Quiz (Due: Thursday 
(1/12/23) 11:59 pm)  
Pre-Course Assessment (Due: 
Wednesday (1/11/23) 11:59 pm)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/11/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Proposal (Sunday 
(1/15/2023) 11:59 pm)  
1/17/23 Analyzing the Business Case 
(Chapter 2 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Discuss 
Module: Case in Point Items, 
Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Discuss Case Study 
Proposals/Final Project (Case 
Study)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 2 Tilley, 
Case in  Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/18/2023) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/18/23) 11:59 pm)  
1/24/23 Managing Systems Projects 
(Chapter 3 Tilley)  
Discuss Case Study Proposals  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 3 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion T opics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/25/2023) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: The Verge Tech (Sunday 
(1/29/2023) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (1/25/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: The Verge Tech 
(Sunday (1/29/2023) 11:59 pm)  
1/31/23 Requirements Engineering 
(Chapter 4 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point Prior to Class Review: Chapter 4 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/1/23) 11:59 pm)  © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Module Quiz (Cenga ge) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/1/2023) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Initial Draft (30%) (Sunday 
(2/5/23) 11:59 pm)  Case Study Initial Draft (30%) 
(Sunday (2/5/23) 11:59 pm)  
2/7/23 Data and Process Modeling 
(Chapter 5 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 5 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: Saturday 
(2/8/2023) 1 1:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/8/23) 11:59 pm)  
2/14/23 Development Strategies (Chapter 
6 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 6 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/15/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Discover Technology 
(Sunday (2/19/2023) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednes day (2/15/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Discover 
Technology (Sunday (2/19/2023) 
11:59 pm)  
2/21/23 Development Strategies (Chapter 
7 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 7 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/22/2023) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (50%) (Sunday 
(2/26/2023) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (2/2 2/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (50%) (Sunday 
(2/26/2023) 11:59 pm)  
2/28/23 User Interface Design (Chapter 8 
Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 8 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/1/23) 11 :59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/1/23) 11:59 pm)  
3/7/23 Data Design (Chapter 9 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 9 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Ques tion of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/8/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Supply Chain Brain 
(Sunday (3/12/23) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/8/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Supply Chain Brain 
(Sunday (3/12/23) 11:59 pm)  
3/21/23 System Architecture (Chapter 10 
Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 10 Tilley, 
Case in Po int Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/22/2023) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (70%) (Sunday 
(3/26/2023) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/22/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (70 %) (Sunday 
(3/26/2023) 11:59 pm)  
3/28/23 Managing Systems 
Implementation (Ch apter 11 
Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 11 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/29/23) 11:59 pm)  Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (3/29/23) 11:59 pm)  
4/4/23 Managing Systems Support and 
Security ( Chapter 12 Tilley)  
Discuss Module: Case in Point 
Items, Question of Ethics Items, 
Discussion Topics (Cengage)  Prior to Class Review: Chapter 12 Tilley, 
Case in Point Items, Question of Ethics 
Items, Discussion Topics (Cengage)  
Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (4/5/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Database Trends and 
Applications (Sunday (4/9/2023) 11:59 
pm) Module Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (4/5/23) 11:59 pm)  
In The News: Database Trends and 
Applications (Sunday (4/9/23) 
11:59 pm)  © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 4/11/23 Innovation and Change  
Communication (Toolkit A 
Tilley)  Prior to Class Review: Innovation and 
Change case studies and literature  
Toolkit A Tilley, Discussion Topics 
(Cengage)  
Toolkit A Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesd ay (4/12/23) 11:59 pm)  Toolkit A Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (4/12/23) 11:59 pm)  
4/18/23 Action Design Science Research 
(ADSR)  
CASE Tools (Toolkit B Tilley)  Prior to Class Review: Design Science  
Research case studies and literature  
Toolkit B Tilley, Discussion Topic s 
(Cengage)  
Toolkit B Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (4/19/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (90%) (Sunday 
(4/23/23) 11:59 pm)  Toolkit B Quiz (Cengage) (Due: 
Wednesday (4/19/23) 11:59 pm)  
Case Study Draft (90%) (Sunday 
(4/23/23) 11:59 pm)  
4/25/23 Final Presentations  Prior to Class Review:  Assigned Case 
Study TBD  
Final Case Study Presentations (Due: 
Tuesday (4/25/23) 6:00 pm)  Final Case Study Presentations 
(Due: Tuesday (4/25/23) 6:00 pm)  
5/2/23 Final Presentations  Prior to Class Review: Assigned Case 
Study TBD  
Case Study Complete (Sunday (5/7/23) 
11:59 pm)  
Post-Course Assessment (Sunday (5/7/23) 
11:59 pm)  Case Study Complete (Sunday 
(5/7/23) 11:59 pm)  
Post-Course Assessment (Sunday 
(5/7/23) 11:59 pm)  
 
 **In the interests of the class, deviations may be made in the coverage of topics as outlined in the 
tentative course calendar. However, to help plan your calendars for the rest of the semester, 
assessment and deadline dates will be non -negotiable after the first day of class  
 
Late Work A ssignment s 
Assignm ents turned in late to Canvas are assessed a penalty of ten points for every 24 
hours of being late.  For example, if a student turns in an assignment less than 24 hours 
late, they will suffer a 10-point penalt y.  This penalty will be in addition to normal 
deductions of points for failure to do the assignment correctly.  Times of assignment 
uploads are recorded by Canvas and reported to the professor.  
 
Should you wish to discuss the grading and points awarded for any assignment your 
professor is happy to acc ommodate you.  However, you must do so within two weeks of 
the graded assignment being returned to you via Canvas.  If you do not discuss such with 
your professor within the two -week window the professor will assume you are satisfied 
with the grading of th e assignment  and will consider the points awarded to be final.  After 
the two -week window no discussions of points awarded on an assignment will be 
entertained.  
 
Attendance Quiz  
To meet USF’s First Day Attendance requirement a short one -question attendance  quiz 
has been set up in Canvas.  Please complete the quiz before Thursday, January 1 2, 2023, 
at 11:59 PM .  If you do not complete the quiz, or if you answer “no” to the single 
question, you will be administratively dropped from our course.  
 © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Extra Credit Policy  
There are no opportunities for extra credit in this course.  Students’ focus should be on 
the primary work in the course.  
 
Medical Issues   
There are certainly cases in which a student legitimately cannot complete course 
assignments for valid medical reasons.  To be excused from course work in such cases 
requires students to furnish a standard note from a health care professional stating care is 
being sought for an ailment or condition which can impede a student’s ability to complete 
course work.  Without such a note an excuse from course work cannot be granted.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete"  
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requir ements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and 
sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is 
due, and the grade the student would earn factor ing in a zero for all incomplete 
assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long 
as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for 
graduate courses from the original date grades were d ue for that course. An "I" grade not 
cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate 
courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract . 
 
Academic Standards, Integrity,  and Academic M isconduct  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s 
commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. 
Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include ho nesty, 
respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all 
academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own 
efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic  
sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status 
of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the 
independently accredited institution.   The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF 
System Regulation 3.027.  
 
In our course assignments , the professor has several methods for penalizing those who 
engage in academic misconduct.  Among these methods the professor can 1) award 0 
points for an assignment on which a student has engaged in misconduct, 2) award an F in 
the enti re course, or 3) award a special FF grade in the course.  An FF appears 
permanently on the student's transcript as a special designation showing the student failed 
the course for reasons of academic misconduct.   The FF includes expulsion from the 
Universit y. 
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms 
and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any stu dent 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.   
 
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphon e when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.   
 
To av oid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
Students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings 
with their instructor or advisor.   
 
Students must ensure that any recordings do n ot invade any third -party privacy rights and 
accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.   
 
Committing academic misconduct in this course will result in a failing (F) grade for the 
course.  In such a case the course will need to be taken again in order to complete the 
MS-BAIS degree.  Other penalties may be applied by the Muma College of Business.  
Particularly egregious cases will result in  a Double -FF (FF) grade being awarded, which 
will lead to expulsion from our program and the University of South Florida.  
 
Web Posting Course Materials  
Students are reminded that posting course materials to third -party sites such as Course 
Hero or Chegg represents a violation of the professor’s copyright on those materials and 
constitutes theft of intellectual property.    
 
Disruption to Academic Process  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of 
the academic  process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a 
classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractio ns, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, 
or well -being of self or other persons.  
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective 
review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An 
“academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects 
that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or 
has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for oth er students.  
 
Attendance Policy  © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Students are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular and on -time attendance 
to class lectures , whether those lectures are offered live or online . Accommodat ion will 
be made for excused absences by making arrange ments with students ahead of time 
(when possible) or by providing a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work.    
 
Group Work Policy  
Everyone must take part in a group project. All members of a group will receive the same 
score; that is, the project is assessed and everyone receives this score.  Once formed, 
groups cannot be altered or switched, except for reasons of extended hospitalizatio n. 
 
Final Examinations Policy  
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination 
policy.  
 
Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other 
people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not 
agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. 
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, 
and it is more difficul t to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas 
before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to 
easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t 
see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students between live class 
meetings will be email.  “Blas t emails” will occasionally be sent by the instructor to all 
students via Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with questions at any 
time.  Please anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
 
Laptop Usage  
Laptop or mobile computing device usage is encouraged during this course. Students are 
allowed to use devices for recording class sessions for personal use.  
 © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Phone Usage  
Students are allowed to use devices for recording lectures for their personal use, though 
students must still adhere to classroom behavioral expectations while recording. Students 
attending the in -person lectures are asked to place their mobile phones on “ silent” and to 
step outside the classroom to take any important calls.  Phones may not be used during 
in-class assignments.  
 
Recordings   
In this class, software will be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a 
student in this class, your p articipation in live class discussions will be recorded. These 
recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those 
who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to 
review content  that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will 
be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss 
this option with your instructor .  
 
Canvas  
This course will be offered via USF's learning m anagement system (LMS), Canvas. 
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in weekly assignments 
and return graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks 
related to this course or other courses being offe red in Canvas, please view the following 
videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at 
(813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Online Exam Proctoring  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  terms  
and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  
Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accep t all terms.  Any student  
may elect  to drop or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or interna l) with a microphone  when  
taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is 
purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  
must  be done  with the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.   
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  
with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  
any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of 
any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they 
take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  
information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  
students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google Chrome  extension . 
For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  procto ring student  
FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .   
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication  © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, Slack, GroupMe, etc.) 
to communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that academic integrity 
policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is 
prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an 
examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.  
 
 
Course Polici es: Student Expectations  
 
Title IX Policy  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal acc ess, USF has designated all faculty (TA, 
Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures 
of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX 
Office makes every effort, when safe to do s o, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to 
make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via 
phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For infor mation about Title IX or for a full list of 
resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are 
unsure wha t to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can 
review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This 
does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these 
websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be 
silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked 
to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. 
Please arrive on time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by 
talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final 
class grade.  
 
 
 
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding t he course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. 
Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy  
Please adhere to the firm p olicy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for 
this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly 
enforced.  
 
Turni tin.com  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with e ach 
submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard 
copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a 
report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used  in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays 
are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify 
instructors of accommodation requests at least 5 business day s prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you obser ve religious holidays, you should 
plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  
 
Campus Free Expression   
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment 
where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas 
that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and 
not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the 
idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the 
idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may 
decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you 
may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the 
ideas. Un derstanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree 
with it . 
 © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 Make -up Exams Policy   
If a student cannot be present for an examination for a valid reason (validity to be 
determined by the instructor), a make -up exam will be given only if the student has 
notified the instructor in advance that s/he cannot be present for the exam. Make -up 
exams are given at the convenience of the instructor usually on Fridays at 10 am . 
 
Rewrites Policy   
Rewrites are entirely optional; however, only t he formal essay may be rewritten for a 
revised grade. Note that an alternate grading rubric will be used for the rewrite, featuring 
an additional column that evaluates the changes made specifically . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the inst ructor will review the examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the instructor will review the  examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Essay Commentary Policy  
Commentary on essays will be delivered in written format, at the end of the essay. 
However, upon request, an alternate delivery method can be used. If desired, instructor 
comments will be made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 through Canvas.  
This approach yields far fewer written comments, but much more commentary in general 
is delivered, due to the speed and specificity of speech. Those requesting mp3 feedback 
must state so when the essay is turned in.  
 
Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility 
Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information 
about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit th e SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student su ccess.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success website . 
 
Canvas Technic al Support  © 202 3 Marcus L. Green  
 If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing  
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
Example : The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or 
abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and 
by offering support and resources. Contact information is available onl ine. 
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counse ling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Saraso ta-Manatee campus.  
 
Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 
*  