  
QMB -2100   
Business & Economic Statistics I  – Summer 20 23 
  
Instructor:          Kim Johnson , Ph.D.   
E-mail:               kimj@usf.edu  
Office:               CIS 20 54B  
Office Hours :    By appointment  in person and via Teams  
                           
 
 
 
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION:  This is a Core course for all Business Majors.  
Catalog Description of the course:  
Data description; exploratory data analysis; introduction to probability; binomial and normal distributions; 
sampling distributions; estimation with confidence intervals; tests of hypotheses; control charts for quality 
improvement.  
Purpose of the course:  
The purpose of the course is to prepare students to appreciate the role statistics plays in data analysis and 
decision making in various business environments. Being the first course, it focuses on Descriptive Statistics, 
Inferential Statistics, and Quality Control. In particular, this course covers descriptive statistics and then 
introduces the concepts and metho ds of: probability, probability distributions, sampling distributions, 
estimation, hypothesis testing, inference, and control charts for quality improvement.    
Learning Goals  
This course is part of the University of South Florida’s Foundations of Knowledge  and Learning Core 
Curriculum.   It is certified for Quantitative Reasoning and for the following dimensions:   Critical Thinking, 
Inquiry -based Learning, Scientific Process, and Quantitative Literacy.  
 
COURSE STUDENT LEARNING GOALS :  At the conclusion of th e course students should:  
1. Understand the concepts of data collection, summary statistics, and statistical inferential techniques and be able to 
apply these concepts; they will use real data to make inferences about populations based on sample information.  
2. Be able to differentiate between the two types of statistical techniques and be able to apply them.  
3. Be clear on what constitutes ethical data analysis and what uses of statistical data analysis are misleading.  
4. Be able to graphically summarize data and ass ess central tendency and variation.  
5. Be able to make good decisions based on basic probability techniques.  
6. Learn about discrete and continuous probability distributions and be able to read and utilize basic statistical tables.  
7. Become proficient at working with sampling distributions and the Central Limit Theorem.  
8. Be able to compute and interpret point and confidence interval estimates.  
9. Be able to conduct hypothesis tests, draw inferences, and appreciate the importance of statistical inference.  
10. Learn  the concepts of process control, the role of statistics, and how to construct and use control charts for quality 
improvement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
MATERIALS  
(Required) Statistics for Business & Economics  (13th or 14th edition ), Pearson Education, McClave , Benson, 
and Sincich. Copies of this text are available for purchase at the USF Bookstore  and other  retailers. Both a hard 
copy and an electronic version are available.   
 
(Required) STATISTIX 10.0  This software can be purchased for Windows only. It is  also available for free 
using the apps.usf.edu gateway (Mac or Windows) . It is highly recommended  that you purchase and install 
this software on your laptop or one that is available to you. Application Gateway can be problematic, and 
students are responsible for having reliable access to the STATISTIX program. Issues relating to the 
Application Gateway should be directed to USF Information Technology ( https://www.usf.edu/it/ ), NOT THE 
INSTRUCTOR OR THE TAs.  
 
 
 
 
COURSE POLICIES   
 
Format  
This course will be conducted entirely online in an asynchronous manner. Weekly Modules will be p ublished , 
and you will be responsible for completing that week’s assignments by Saturday  at 11:59pm at the end of each 
week . You will watch two recorded lectures and then complete a test or  an assignment.  
 
All of the week’s lectures and assignments will be posted  to Canvas by the end of the day on the Saturday 
preceding that week, giving you through the following Saturday to watch the lectures and complete the work. 
Occasionally the material may be posted in advance and you will be  able to work ahead, but keep in mind that 
this is not a “work at your own pace” course . You will need to be able to be “present” for the entire 10 weeks.  
 
You should begin every week by reading the Weekly Overview. This will inform you of the material we will 
cover that week; the assign ments you will need to complete; as well as any pertinent information regarding Stat 
Lab, Teams availability, and other information I may need to convey to you. Always read the Weekly Overview . 
 
Attendance   
No attendance will be taken other than the First Day Attendance. This will take place in the form of a Syllabus 
Quiz (for no grade) that will be present in Module 1. Students who do not complete this quiz by the  first day of 
class  will be dropped from the course.  
 
Document Signatures  
If you at any time during the semester require the instructor’s signature on a document , you will need to  submit 
the document  virtually via DocuSign (look under the Business Systems tab on the MyUSF homepage)  
 
 
 Communication  
I will communicate with you via Canvas  messaging and announcement s. It is important that you check Canvas 
on at least a daily basis. If you don’t read the announcements, you will very likely mis s important 
information!  
 
When you have a questi on, please first refer to the syllabus , the Weekly Overview, and recent announcements . If 
your question is still unanswered, message me through Canvas and I will respond as quickly as possible.  
 
Office Hours  
I am available to meet with students in person in my office on campus  by appointment.  In addition , I will host a 
weekly Teams discussion open to all students. Teams availability for that week will be posted in the Weekly 
Overview.  
 
Late Work  
Late homework assignments will be accepted according to the policy outline below, but  tests cannot be made up . 
If you miss a test, that will have to be your drop. This class moves at a  fast pace and it’s important that you not 
fall behind. You have a full week to complete the work for each module; don’t wait  until the last minute.  
 
Cheating  The policy for this course for students caught cheating is as follows: At minimum, the student will 
receive a 0 on the relevant assignment  and be prevented from dropping the course. At maximum, the 
student will receive an FF course grade and the case will be turned over to USF for further action. (See 
USF Regulation -3.026, Academic Integrity of Students  and last page of syllabus). Falsifying  documents (e.g., 
excuse letters, doctor’s notes, etc.) will be treated as cheating. Assisting another student with quizzes or exams or 
sharing your work with other students for them to submit as their own constitutes cheating. THERE ARE NO 
EXCEPTIONS TO T HIS POLICY!  
 
Extra Credit  and Grade Adjustment  
 
I do not offer extra credit, but I do allow you to drop your lowest test grade and your lowest homework assignment 
grade (assuming you complete all work). There will be no curving of grades , however, if the f inal course average 
is below 75%, points will be added to each student’s score until the course average is 75%.  Lastly, I round final 
course grades up  or down  to the nearest whole number  (89.4 becomes 89; 89.5 becomes 90) .  
 
STAT  LAB  
Stat Lab is a tutoring service offered by the TAs. This is available via Teams. Scheduling and further details 
regarding Stat Lab will be posted under the Resources Module in Canvas. You are highly encouraged to utilize 
this excellent resource! The TAs are  highly knowledgeable and are there to help you succeed in this class.  
 
  
ASSIGNMENTS  
 
You are required to complete either a homework assignment or a test each week . You will be allowed to drop the 
lowest  of EACH of these , but if you miss one you may not make it up  and that will be your dropped grade . You have the entire week to take the test or complete the homework , so there is really no reason to miss one. Be sure 
to add this to your calendar so you don’t forget, and don’t wait until the last minute in case something comes up.   
 
 
Tests  
You are required to complete 3 out of 4 tests , each worth 50 points  for a total of 150 points . Only the  top 3 of 
your  4 test grades will be  include d in your grade at the end of the semester . Test questions  will usually be 
multiple choice and true/false, but other formats may sometimes be included (you will receive advance notice of 
this). Tests MUST be taken by Saturday at 11:59pm.  Tests will be open in Canvas for the entire week and y ou 
may take t he quiz at any point during this time.  You are allowed only one attempt for each test and late tests  will 
not be a dministered  under any circumstances .  
  
 
Homework   
You are required to complete 5 out of 6 homework assignments , worth a 30 points  each for a total of 150 points . 
Each homework assignment must be typed and submitted  in Canvas as a SINGLE  .doc or .docx  file by the 
assignment’s respective due date. We do not grade submissions consisting of several separate files. Hand -written 
work will  not be accepted.  Some h omework assignments will be submitted via Turnitin to assess for plagiarism.  
All homework assignments are due  by Saturday at 11:59pm . Late homework assignments will be accepted at a 
penalty of 3 points per day up to three days  after the due date (no work is accepted after that) . It is your 
responsibility to make sure you submit your homework on time in the proper format. If you submit the 
incorrect file or submit a do cument that is unreadable, you will be allowed to resubmit but will be assessed a 5-
point  penalty  in addition to the late penalty (assessed starting the day you are notified that your document is 
incorrect) . Check the document you are submitting to make su re it is the correct one!  
 
 
Grading  
 
A total of 300 points can be earned in this course ( 150 points for the exam s plus 150 points for homework ). To 
obtain your percentage grade, just divide your total points earned by 300. Grades will be  assigned as follows:  
  
Percentages  Points  Letter  Percentages  Points  Letter  
97.00 -100.0  388-400.00  A+  77.00 -79.99  308-319.99  C+  
93.00 -96.99  372-387.99  A  73.00 -76.99  292-307.99  C  
90.00 -92.99  360-371.99  A-  70.00 -72.99  280-291.99  C-  
87.00 -89.99  348-359.99  B+  67.00 -69.99  268-279.99  D+  
83.00 -86.99  332-347.99  B  60.00 -66.99  240-267.99  D  
80.00 -82.99  320-331.99  B-  00.00 -59.99  000-239.99  F  
  
 
  
 
 USF GUIDELINES AND POLICIES   
  
University Policy On Academic Dishonesty Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis 
of personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers 
constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be 
punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule. More infor mation about the 
policies  regarding academic dishonesty can be obtained  from  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf   
  
Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a 
course -graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the 
paper of another student, no r consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person 
to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing 
visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diag rams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and 
presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other 
examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, sp eeches, etc.; (f) stealing 
or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  
  
 
University Statement on Delivery of Instruction in event of Emergency  In the event of an emergency, it may 
be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. D uring this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of 
instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: CANVAS, Elluminate, Skype, and email 
messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor CANVAS site  for each 
class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and 
MoBull messages for important general information.   
  
Final Examinations Policy  All final examinations are to be scheduled in accordance with  the University's final 
examination policy. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf   
  
General Attendance Policy  Information about the general attendance policy at USF may be obtained from the 
following link: http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAtten dance.pdf   
  
Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days  “No student shall be compelled to attend class 
or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. In accordance with the University 
policy on observa nce of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be 
absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.” Students must provide notice of the 
date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at th e beginning of the term. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf   
 
Disruption of the Academic Process  Information about this policy may be obtained fro m the following link:  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf   
  
Student Academic Grievance Procedures  Information about the policies regarding student academic grievance 
procedures may be obtained from the following link: 
http://www .ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf   
  Students with Disabilities  Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages s tudents to notify instructors of 
accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must 
accompany this request. Contact SDS at 813 -974-4309 or www.sds.usf.edu   
  
Grades of “incomplete”  The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this 
course. Incomplete grades are given only in extreme situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a student 
from completing the course and the remaining work can be compl eted in the next semester. Your instructor is the 
final authority on whether you qualify for an incomplete. Incomplete work must be finished by the end of the 
subsequent semester. If work is not finished by this deadline university policy is that the “I” a utomatically reverts 
to an “F”.  
  
Sexual misconduct/sexual harassment  USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex 
discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for 
Victim is a conf idential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes 
including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you 
without having to report your situation to eit her the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the 
Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please 
be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of 
sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. 
If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report i t to OSSR 
or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974 -
5757.   
 
 
 