2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 1 of 15 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester:    Spring, 2023  
Delivery method: Online, Off -campus  
Class Meeting Days:   Online  
Class Meeting Time:   Online  
Class Meeting Location:  Online  
Instructor:    Dr. Bhuvan UNHELKAR  
Office Location:    C225, College of Business, Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
Office Hours:     Online  
Phone Number:  (941) 359 -4654   (Email and MS Teams preferred)  
Email:     bunhelkar@usf.edu   
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
 
Welcome to the Course: Business Analysis . This course is designed to help you appreciate, 
understand and apply contemporary Business Analysis  techniques with substantial emphasis on 
Agility. You will find the practical aspects of this course highly relevant to your study and your 
future career. The course draws material from my consulting and training experience in real -life 
together with my study of this discipline and a couple of published book s. My wish is that you 
derive maximum val ue from this course and be able to apply the concepts discuss ed here in 
practice .  
 
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
 
This course has no set pre -requisites. Students are, however, expected to have basic 
understanding of how work happens in a project and in an organization. This course is focuse d on 
learning to capture requirements, managing stakeholders and enhancing the quality of all 
deliverables in an organization. Please note that this course does not deal with analytics and, 
therefore, does not contain  any machine learning concepts or statistical techniques. General 
appreciation of the routine work in the industry is good enough to get started with this course. An 
important soft -skill you will need, however, is the ability to collaborate with fellow students in a 
Team. This is a vital skill, especially as we collaborate for a Team P roject ONLINE.  
 Course MAN 4930 : 
Business Analysis  
3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/24/2023  
2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 2 of 15 
 III. Course Purpose   
 
The purpose of th is course is to provide  students  with a practical understanding of Business 
Analysis  with particular focus on its application in business organizations. Business Analysis 
(BA) is a critical thinking and problem -solving discipline. The Business Analysis Body of 
Knowledge (BABOK ® v3.0 ) of the International Institute of Business Analysis  (IIBA ) is the 
internationally recognized benchmark for BA. This course covers all essential aspects of the 
function of Business Analysis in an organizati on, including skills  and capabilities  in modeling 
requirements, managing stakeholders, understanding the context of a business problem, managing 
change  and providing value. Business Analysts understand the needs of the business, compare 
and verify alternat ives, describe the expectations from a solution and provide recommendations – 
all the time keeping the value to stakeholders  in mind . The BA capabilities operate at s trategic, 
tactical and o perational levels and they move the organization to its future sta te. Technologies, 
architecture, processes and business intelligence are considered in an Agile context  in the study of 
BA. The entire course is structured in a way that enables the students to learn  and enhance their 
BA capabilities within an Agile environ ment. Students  learn to model requirements that enable 
end-users to accomplish their goals from the solution.  Students further sharpen their skills in 
communication, collaboration and critical thinking  abilities. This course is presented in a practical 
manner that equips students with business  analysis capabilities to work effectively in real projects 
and organizations. This course also  provides an excellent opportunity for students to appear in the 
external certification exam of the  IIBA and achieve the highly coveted Certified Business 
Analysis Professional (CBAP) certification that is highly valued by employers.  
 
IV. Instructor Contact Information and Communication   
Contact Details:  
Office: C225, Sarasota -Manatee campus;  
Phone Office: TEAMS  
8350 N. Tamiami Trail | Sarasota, FL 34243  
Email: bunhelkar@usf.edu ; (Use this email OR Canvas ) 
Linked -In: https://www.linkedin.com/in/unhelkar/  (You are invited to connect with me ); 
 
You are welcome to address me as Professor Unhelkar or Dr. Unhelkar or simply Professor (Prof. will also 
do). In ALL your interactions with me, it is ABSOLUTELY vital that you maintain total courtesy and respect . 
I promise to do the same in my interactions with you. This requirement of total courtesy and respect in 
written and verbal communication also applies i n your interactions with all your fellow students  and 
other people involved in this course. Under NO circumstances will uncourteous or disrespectful behavior 
be accepted.  
 
V. Course Format & Logistics  
In terms of Course Logistics:  
a) This is an entirely onlin e course - there is NO physical meeting in a room. Students are also not expected 
to meet each other face to face  during this study.  
b) This is an ASYNCHRONOUS course - that means, you can decide to download and listen to the lecture at 
any time during th e week (although earlier you do, better it is for you - as there are discussion questions and 
counter -comments to be posted).  Please remember: Each week, I have a PPTx with voice -over for you to 
listen to. Please play the PPTx to listen to audio explanatio n of most slides. Each week, there are study 
activities that are based on the textbook.   2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 3 of 15 
 c) I am available on MS Teams for further explanations/discussions AFTER you have gone through the 
lecture material should you need - but I have not set a specific day/time for that. It is also not mandatory for 
you to meet with me on MS Teams every week.  
 
d) Student collaboration for the Team Project is left up to the students. I am not monitoring it and I am not 
expecting you to report to me on a weekly ba sis in terms of how your Team Project is progressing. There 
are, however, checkpoints in the course where you must report your progress on the project.  
 
Note: Please check the amateur video I have created (link separately provided in this page) to help 
personalize this online course. I hope you find the introduction helpful.   
 
 
VI. First Week Attendance Policy  
In order to mark you present for the 1st day (mandatory requirement of USF), its important that 
you reply to the following questions here, as a part of this discussion:  
1. Did you introduce yourself to the Class? (Your name, preferred name,  what you are 
currently studying, your career aspirations etc.). You may also upload your profile picture 
for the course , should you wish . 
2. Have you read and understood the syllabus for this course? (If something is not clear in 
the syllabus, you may post it in the discussion on the 1st day attendance so others can also 
benefit by the Q&A).  
3. Have you gone through the link provided in Week 0 for  "Academic Integrity of Students" 
applicable across USF System?  
4. Are you clear in terms of the number of assessments, their points and which ones are 
team work?  (Specific  details for each assignment are provided underneath their 
respective headings). It is important to note that the Team Work assignment requires you 
to work in a team  - you may want to organize who are the other fellow students you can 
work with as a team. You can start forming your team by going to 'People' and then Team 
Projects.   
5. Have you "Liked" a post or two and  passed a counter -comment on any one of your fellow 
student? (It is important that you get into the habit of "Like" ing and passing counter -
comments during the discussion sessions as that is one of our crucial teaching -learning 
technique).  
(Please note: Once you post to the above, you are marked Present for the 1st Day; please post 
early in the week  for this online course ; Completing this task is a *mandatory* requirement of 
USF)  
 
 
VII. How to Succeed in this Course  
 
Successful students should follow these  practical tips for their online studies : 
 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 4 of 15 
 1. Check Canvas and emails DAILY  for announcements . 
2. Close down other programs and apps before class begins  so that you have sufficient computer 
memory and bandwidth to handle the course. This action will also enable you to focus on the 
study.  
3. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi ; Use a laptop 
instead of a smartphone.   
4. Read the instruction page for the Discussion questions, Team collaborations, and Quizzes  
5. Work in Team Projects where required in a collaborative manner. ONLINE collaboration 
requires discipline and responsibility towards the entire team . This is a CRUCIA L 
learning objective and learning experience of this course.  
6. Submit ALL assignments in time and NOT wait for any reminders ; Please note: Reminders are 
purely a courtesy and are provided entirely optionally.  
7. Attempt ALL assignments  – please do NOT leave a ny assignments un -attempted even though 
you may be doing very well in the ones you have already attempted. Making an honest attempt 
at all assignments and achieving a minimum score (as specified in each assignment) is 
absolutely crucial for success in this  course.  
8. For any delays in submission, please reach out to me (your professor ) promptly and explain the 
reasons (except in medical emergencies where you simply can’t reach out)  
9. Maintain high -level of honesty and ethical behavior throughout the course  
10. Main tain total respect towards your Professor / Instructor and your fellow students  
11. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
 
 
VIII. Student Learning Outcomes  
 
At the completion of this course, students will be able to:  
 
1. Explain the profession of Business Analy sis (BA) and its relevance in developing practical business 
solutions  
2. Undertake a business NEEDS analysis based on stakeholders Analysis and stakeholder management in an 
Iterative and Incremental (AGILE) manner  
3. Apply the BA techniques (business and technic al) in an AGILE manner in order to undertake effective 
Business Analysis activities  
4. Map the capabilities of Business Analysts with the IIBA’s BABOK v3.0 (Business Analysis Body of 
Knowledge version 3.0) framework in order to ensure the capabilities are dev eloped according to a global 
industry standard for the profession of BA  
5. Communicate, negotiate, elicitate and ensure the quality of requirement models (including Functional, 
Non -Functional and Usability models) during the development of a solution  
6. Demonst rate the applicability of Business Analysis in practice and corresponding challenges  
7. Undertake team work and communicate effectively and REGULARLY in an online  team environment to 
enable delivery of project outputs  
 
 
IX. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
 
For a few Modules in this course, material is drawn from two books that I have written.  
These textbooks are made FREELY available by USF's Textbook Adoption Program. : (see 
Canvas for links to download):  2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 5 of 15 
  
Text:  
Unhelkar, B., (2018), Softw are Engineering with UML, CRC Press, (Taylor and Francis Group /an Auerbach Book), 
Boca Raton, FL, USA. Authored, Foreword Scott Ambler. ISBN 978 -1-138-29743 -2  
 
Unhelkar , B., (2013), The Art of Agile Practice: A Composite Approach for Projects and Organizations, CRC Press, 
(Taylor and Francis Group /an Auerbach Book), Boca Raton, FL, USA . Authored ISBN 9781439851180, Foreword 
Steve Blais, USA  
 
Powerpoints Voiceover created by me  
 
Addi tional material from  
My own YouTube videos;   
IIBA's publicly available videos  
Microsoft Visio - as a tool to model requirements  
JIRA (or similar tool) for AGILE collaboration  
 
X. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
 
- Fowler, M., UML distilled:3rd Edition Addison -Wesley  
-  
- Unhelkar , B., (2005), “Verification and Validation for Quality of UML Models”, John Wiley and Sons , 
(Wiley Interscience), July, 2005; Clothbound, Pages 290+. ISBN: 0471727830 (Foreword by Prof. Brian 
Henderson -Sellers, UTS, Sydney, Australia)  
- Unhelkar , B., (2003), “Process Quality Assurance for UML -based Projects” Pearson Education ( Addison -
Wesley ), Boston, 2003; (394 Pages + CD. Foreword by Vicki P. Rainey, Raytheon Corporation, USA). ISBN 9 
780201 -758214  
 
Other materials (including Youtube/Ted talk videos etc.) will be shared in class.  
 
 
XI. PERFORMANCE  EVALUATION AND GRADING:  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  
Discussion Questions  30%  
Team Project Report  20%  (Group Grade)  
Team Project Presentation   5% (Group Grade)  
Team Project Collaboration   5%  
Mid-term Quiz  20%  
Final Quiz  20%  
 ------  
 100%  
 
Student performance is evaluated based their regularity in posting to and participating in the classroom 
Discussion questions around the weekly study topics. Performance is also evaluated through assignments 
(including Team Projects) and quizzes.  
 
Please note that late assignments will be accepted only with fully justified and documented reasons as per 
university guidelines.  Also, please note, late assignments will be penalized in order to maintain equitability 
with fellow students.  
 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 6 of 15 
 A late submission of Assignment/quiz will not be considered valid and all points forfeited if: (a) Student has 
been reminded  once  and yet no action is taken by the student ; (b) Assignment solution has been discussed in the 
class, (c) Correct answers to the assignment / quiz ha ve been provided to the class.  
 
The relative weights for each of these components in determining the final grade are as follows (please also 
note the key evaluation rubric description,  next to the percentages):  
 
Discussion Questions  and online participati on 30% (Communication) . There are 6 discussion questions in 
this course. Each discussion question is graded out of 10 points; and eventually the points are consolidated 
out of 30. Most of these discussions are essay style posts by you, students , as you apply your critical 
thinking skills in order to discuss and reflect on the issues and challenges of Business Analysis . What is 
learnt in the class modules AND what is explored/researched by students is together used in making these 
discussion posts.  These discussion question s are posted at the end of the current  class  module. Students 
read the question carefully, think, reflect, research and post an  answer . The very first post by a student is 
provided with a bonus point in order to encourage students to  post earlier in the week . After posting your 
answer , you will be able to see the posts made by your fellow students. Once you see the posts from fellow 
students , select any one of those posts and enter in a discussion by provid ing a critique of fellow stu dents’ 
answer. This posting and counter -posting of discussions  is an important learning mechanism. Through 
participating in these discussion questions students are able to consolidate their knowledge as they also 
observe how fellow students are thinking an d interpreting the material similar (or different) to how they do 
it themselves. Communications skills are further sharpened especially in an online format through this 
exercise. Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in th is assignment in order to 
pass this course. Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Maintaining UTMOST 
courtesy towards your fellow students and your professor as you enter these discussions is also a vital 
requirement of this assi gnment. Please note that this is an individual assignment and each student is 
graded based on her/his work. Should there be doubt on the “originality” of the post, the instructor 
reserves the right to ask the student to submit a Turnitin report.   
 
 
Team Project  30% (Critical Thinking, Team Work, Communication ; Report 20% + Presentation 5% + 
Team Collaboration 5%) – The team project forms an absolutely critical part of evaluation  in this course. 
Students are put together in a team (typically 5 students) and provided with a case study problem statement. 
Students apply the knowledge they have learnt to work through the case study and  put together the 
deliverables in the form of a Report (20%) and a Presentation (5%) at the end of the course.  Team Project 
Collaboration (5%) described below.  
 
For a Team of 5 students, the expected size of the report, in Word (12 font, 1.5 spacing) is approximately 
30 pages. Accompanying your report will be a professional PPTx presentation deck (approximately 25 
slides) that p resents your Business Analysis work to a Program/Project Steering committee.  Your report 
and presentation deck explains your understanding of how you applied the Business Analysis  practices  you 
studied in the class to a ‘near real’ life case study (that is provided). You must make sure that your report 
has NO THEORY (i.e. please don’t start with What is Business Analysis ? As no client / business 
stakeholder wants to hear th at). You, as a team, need to develop a well -grounded presentation that has both 
relevance  and depth  in practice . Please also add a voice -over or video -delivery of your presentation ; and 
ensure that the submission of the slide deck itself  should be free from basic English errors, spelling 
mistakes, formatting errors etc. Please note that you are not required to make a live/online presentation to 
me of this project.  
   
Please note further that this is a TEAM assignment and each student is graded base d on the ENTIRE 
TEAM’s work.  
 
Team Project Collaboration  5% (Team Work, Communication) – A crucial aspect of Team Project 
Collaboration is your ability to reach out to fellow students in your team, collaborate with them (electronic 
media is fine) . – In thi s online course, it’s vital that students start collaborating with each other as soon as 
they start the study. This online collaboration is a mandatory requirement of this course as it will require 
students to not only use their critical thinking skills bu t also learn, develop and apply their ability to 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 7 of 15 
 communicate online and work in an online team environment. Your mutual collaboration on the project 
topic, develop ment of  a project plan, identif ication of the risks and “execut ion” of the project  gets regul arly 
reported in this exercise . There are check -points for the Team Project collaboration update that appear in 
Discussion format in the course. Each of these check -points require you to collaborate and then update on 
how it went. Agility in Business Analy sis includes the principles of collaboration, communication and 
transparency. When you post what you have done in the Team Project for everyone to see, you are 
practicing all these aforementioned skills.   
 
Please also note that this is an individual assign ment and each student is graded based on her/his effort to 
bring the TEAM together, facilitate and respond to collaboration efforts and how the student contributes to 
the project. Although you are updating the Team Collaboration, this is your individual ef fort component of 
the Team Project.  
 
Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in this assignment in order to pass this 
course. Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course  
 
2 Quizzes  (Mid -term & Final) 40% (Critical Thinking)  – These two quizzes are multiple -choice online 
quizzes which are based on the material covered in the Modules. HONORLOCK will be used to ensure 
integrity of these quizzes. Students apply critical thinking to the questions asked in the quiz and, thereby, 
validate as well as consolidate their knowledge of Business Analysis  together with Agility.  Each quiz has 
40 questions worth 1 -point each = 40 points. Each quiz is then scaled down and consolidated to produce 
final quiz score out of 40. Please note that the Material covered in the Mid -term quiz will NOT be covered 
again in the Final quiz. Thus, the two quizzes are EXCLUSIVE to each other. Quizzes are drawn from a 
pool of questions – therefore questions may change fo r each student in each attempt of the quiz.  Students 
need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in this assignment in order to pass this course. 
Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Please note that this is a n individual 
assignment and each student is graded based on her/his work.  
 
Total  100%  
 
A grade will be determined based on the total of possible points earned, as follows:  
 
A 90-100; B 80 -89; C 70 -79; D 60 -69; F 0 -59.  
 
Further granularity of the grades with + and – will be part of the final grade  and will depend on the 
overall performance of the student, their attitude and their demonstrated desire to learn through class 
participation and interaction with the professor.  
 
 
Important Note s:  
>> This course requires you to attempt ALL assessments listed above (Discussion questions, Team 
Collaboration updates , Team Project and Quizzes). Leaving any of these assessment items un -attempted 
will mean an “I” for Incomplete grade. For example, sometimes,  a student has excellent points in some 
assessment tasks and that he/she will proceed with  an assumption that a  “0” point score for a quiz or team 
project  is okay because overall points are good . This is not an acceptable situation in this course. All 
assessment items MUST be attempted in all honesty by the students  with a minimum of 40% points .  
>> Students are requested to maintain utmost HONESTY and INTEGRITY in attempting assignments. 
Should there be any doubt about any assessment task, the instructor r eserves the right to invite the student 
for a meeting and seek further clarification. In an extreme case, where there is serious doubt about the 
integrity of the assessment task, a rewrite of that task will be required.  
 
XII. HONORLOCK Requirements  
 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 8 of 15 
 All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  terms  and 
video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in 
the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect  to 
drop  or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.  
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  
taking an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is 
purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  
must  be done  with  the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.  
To avoid  any conc erns in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
The University  library  and other  academic  sites  at the University  offer  secure  private  
settings  for recordings  and students  with  concerns  may  discuss  location  of an appropriate  
space for the recordings  with  their  instructor  or advisor.  
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and 
accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.  
Students  are stric tly responsible  for ensuring  that they  take  all exams  using  a reliable  
computer  and high -speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to 
taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock  students  are required  to download  and 
install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension  (Links  to an external  site.) ." For additional  
information  please  visit the USF online  proctoring  student  FAQ  (Links  to an external  
site.)  and Honorlock  student  resources  (Links  to an external  site.) .  
 
XIII. Course Schedule  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
(Please note: The DATES corresponding to the Weekly Modules are available on CANVAS – under Schedule ) 
 
   
 
Please note this is a tentative schedule – some changes will most likely occur as we progress into the semester 
as the subject matter gets expanded and explained. The quizzes can also shift either way by a week or so 
depending on the semester . Precise DATES for ass essment tasks are accurately provided on CANVAS. Each 
wee k also has a Discussion Question or a Team Project Collaboration update. Posting to these assessment tasks 
is mandatory in this study. Regular courtesy reminders are provided on CANVAS as also occasional 
announcements. It is the responsibility of the stude nt to check these announcements.  
 
 
• 1. Introduction to Business Analysis; Why & What; A Profession in its own right; Global standard of the 
IIBA; BABOK Guide version 3.0; Preliminary reading and subject matter introduction; Team Project (Form 
Teams, Assign Problem Statements).  
• 2. Project Lifecycles; Introduction to Agile; Problem Space Modeling with Business Analysis; Team Project 
(Outline key Phases);  2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 9 of 15 
 • 3. Business Analysis competencies; Stakeholder Management; Negotiation & Collaboration; Roles & 
Perm issions; Team Project (Document Stakeholders); SWOT  
• 4. Exploring Requirements; Types; Techniques: Mind maps, Art of questioning, Critical thinking; Team 
Project (Document Mindmaps, Interviews);  
• 5. Functional Requirements Modeling (Use Cases, Activity Grap hs); Team Project;  
• 6. Data Modeling, Business Domain (Class) Modeling;  
• ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
• 7. Mid-term quiz, followed by mid -term break – with Team Project activities  
• ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
• 8. The Agile Perspective; Value mapping; Managing BA activities in project  
• 9. User Stories; Kanban; Team Project (Placing User Stories in Kanban);  
• 10. Quality A ssurance (Verification, Validation & Testing); Traceability; Solution Evaluation; NFRs; UXA;  
• 11. Risk Analysis & Management; Change Management; Cybersecurity Analysis;  
• 12. Relating BA to Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning; The Business Intelligen ce Perspective; Data 
mining;  
• 13. Organisational adoption , Change Management, Digital Leadership ; 
• -----------------------------------------------  
• 14. Study break; Consolidation week;  
• 15. Team Project submission  
• 16. Final Quiz.  
 
 
XIV. Standard University Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XV. Campus Free Expression:  
 
Discussion questions and Team project collaboration updates in this course are objective 
expressions of the students. Counter -comments/posts should be made such that they are NOT 
found to be  uncomfortable, unwelcome, disagreeable, or offensive.  
Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual Freedom Act” c an be found online.  
 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. 
Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not 
as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, a nd that the idea(s) is 
supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide 
that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 10 of 15 
 to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. 
Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XVI. Make -up Exams Policy:  
 
NO make -up exams are offered. However, i f a student cannot be present fo r the quiz due to an 
extreme emergency (such as an accident or loss in family), a make -up exam may be considered. 
Proper and full documentation of the event will have to be submitted to the instructor. Final grade 
for the exam will be scaled down by 30% an d the exam will be administered at the convenience of 
the instructor.  
 
XVII. Covid -19 Procedures  
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing  
during in -person classes . Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct and Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
 
Additional details are available on the Univ ersity ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
The health and safety of students, faculty, st aff and visitors on our campuses is our top 
priority. In response to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the USF community will be 
working together to support compliance with recommended health and safety standards 
to optimize the learning experience while mini mizing health risks.  The Conduct 
Expectations for all members of the community may be accessed at  Conduct  Expected  to 
Support  USF Health  and Safety  Standards  with details provided below:  
Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the safest 
possible non -disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic  Disruption  Regulation  which provides for an imm ediate removal or 
restriction from a classroom setting with academic sanctions and/or  
(2) Student  Conduct  Regulation  to address conduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as o utlined below:  
1. Complete  daily  screening  as requested.  Anyone experiencing one or more COVID -19 
symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their 
residence hall room and should contact a medical provider immediately and follow 
their guidance. Please inform your instructor prior to the beginning class if your 
screening indicates the need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear  face  coverings.  All members of the USF community are required to wear face 
coverings w hile in classrooms or any other shared space, including specified public or 
common -use areas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this 
link on  How  To Make  A Face  Mask . If you have to use a disposable face mask, please 
discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 11 of 15 
 3. Maintain  social  distancing.  All students, faculty, staff and guests are required to 
main tain a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained in all 
indoor and outdoor spaces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet 
(about 2 arms’ length) from other people, do not gather in groups, stay out of 
crowded places  and avoid mass gatherings. See the CDC for information on  Social  
Distancing . Please sit in only designated areas in class and do not move cha irs or 
desks in classrooms or common spaces.  
4. Practice  good  hand  hygiene.  Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water 
for at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal hand sanitizers containing 
at least 60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations are available throughout the campus. If 
you see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations on  Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect  your  classroom  space.  Students and faculty are responsible for disinfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each 
class. This includes desk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant 
supplies will be provided. If paper towels are us ed to disinfect, they must be 
discarded in a trash receptable immediately after use.  
  2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 12 of 15 
  
GRADING, EVALUATION AND ATTENDANCE POLICIES :  
 
A. Per USF policy, you receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s drop/withdraw 
date. 
B. Specifically state the value of and the manner in which each assignment in the syllabus will be evaluated or 
graded. Periodic reports on project progress are a contributing factor to the final grad e. 
C. The course grade includes an assessment on how well you have demonstrated the five learning outcomes 
listed above. We will use the straight A,B,C,D and F system, point system.  
D. This course does not require any class attendance. However, periodic updates on project progress, issues 
encountered, hurdles, etc. will be communicated – and, in rare cases, a face -to-face meeting organized 
by the faculty in charge.  
E. The notes, videos, quizzes etc. provided for your study in this class is intellectual property of the 
faculty. Students are NOT permitted to post the study material and quizzes anywhere online on the 
internet.   
 
USF System Policies  
 
Policies are available in the USF Catalog  and at regulationspolicies.usf.edu .  
 
 
A. Academic Dishonesty : The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, 
projects, or papers to be una cceptable behavio r. It is important to remember that academic 
integrity policies apply throughout the semester and in all channels of communication. 
Informing others about the contents of online tests is prohibited by the official regulation , as is 
receiving unauthorized information about an examination. Students are expected and required 
to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.  Pleas e review  the USF System 
Regulation USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students  and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 
Student Code of Conduct . 
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  
Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF (SM)  to suspend 
normal operations.  During this time, USF (SM)  may opt to continue delivery  of instruction through 
methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools , email 
messaging , and/or an alternate schedule. It  is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for 
each of their class es for cou rse specific communication, as well as  the USF (SM)  website, their student 
email  account , and MoBull  messages for important general information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 
992-4231 is updated with pre -recorded inf ormation during an emergency.  See the Campus Police 
Website  for further information.  
 
D. Accessibility  Accommodation : Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students 
Accessibility Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must 
be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. I t is the 
responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of 
Accommodation.  Contact Informati on: Students Accessibility Services  Coordinator, 941 -359-4714, 
disab ilityservices@sar.usf.edu , http:// USF (SM) .edu/disability -services/   
   
E. Fire Alarm Instructions : At the beginning of each semester please note the emergency exit maps 
posted in each classroom.  These signs are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and 
secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency 
Evacuation Procedures . 
 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 13 of 15 
 F. Religious Observances : USF (SM)  recognizes the right of students and faculty to observe major 
religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major 
religious observance must  provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week 
of classes.  Instructors canceling class for a religious observance should have this stated in the syllabus 
with an appropriate alternative assignment.  
 
G. Protection  of Students  Against Discrimination  and Harassment: 
1. Sexual Misconduct/S exual Harassment Reporting: USF (SM)  is committed to providing 
an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence 
(USF System Policy 0-004). 
2. Other  Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USF (SM)  also is committed to 
providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, 
color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, 
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 
0-007). 
 
 
H. Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e-mail account.  
Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address.  The 
web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.  
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS : 
 
A. Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarian s, learning support faculty, tutors, and  technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to contact 
their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or regularly use t he 
tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services  (http://www. USF 
(SM) .edu/academics/academic -resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which ar e provided at 
no cost to students.   
 
B. Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help 
develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice 
for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.  Access these resources 
or schedule an appointment with career advisors  at www.USF.edu/career -services . 
 
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  MAY be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which 
instructors may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
electronic format. Af ter the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 14 of 15 
 from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.t urnitin.com . 
Assessments are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
 
XVIII.  Learning Support : Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk 
about incidents of  discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, 
gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship violence. Call 
941-487-4254  
 
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of 
discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relati onship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to 
report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of 
Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO),  unless you request that they make a report. 
 
Please  be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators  must 
report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, 
sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/rela tionship violence. If a student d iscloses any of these situations 
in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally , he or she is  required to report it to OSSR  or DIEO  
for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment 
are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or D I E O . The Deputy Coordinator for USF (SM)  is 
Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Students Accessibility Services & Student Advocacy, 941 -359-4714 or 
adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu . 
 
Campus Resources: 
Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941-487-4254  
Victim Advocate (24/7) 941-504-8599  
 
List of off-campus resources: 
HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805  
Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota:  941-365-1976 
Centerstone:  941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059  
 
Victim Advocate  
A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance leave a 
message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon as possible. 
The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and partner 
violence.  
 
 
 
XIX. Important Dates to Remember  
 2023 Spring _MAN 4930_ Business Analysis _Unhelkar , Bhuvan .Docx  Page 15 of 15 
 All the dates related to the course, including and especially the assignments are posted on Canvas. Please to 
note that the schedule appearing in this document and the dates place d on Canvas are tentative . While 
every attempt is made to hold on to the initial dates posted, they CAN be changed at the discretion of the 
professor.  In terms of the overall University dates, please b e sure to get the newest dates from the 
Registrar: https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 
End of Syllabus  
 