 1 ISM 6137:  Statistical Data Mining  
W 6:30pm – 10:15pm,  Spring  Semester 2023 
BSN 231  
 
Professor: Dr. Daniel Zantedeschi  Office: CIS 206 6  
E-mail: danielz@usf.edu   Office Hours: By appointment  
Website:                                                                  Office Phone: (813) 694 1122  
TA: None  TA Hours:   
 
Course Overview:  
 
This is the second course  in a two -course sequence on statistical modeling of data. It will examine 
advanced statistical models for handling different kinds of data where linear regression is inappropriate, 
such as  count data, mixed -level data, classification data, temporal data, and survival data, using  R. More 
than learning the tools, the focus of the course will be on solving important problems in the healthcare, 
retail, service, and other domains  from start to end, in a systematic manner , and doing so using the right 
statistical models. This is a “thinkin g” course that will require a significant amount of time, effort, and 
attention on your part. Prior knowledge of R is required for this class.  
 
Prerequisite:  QMB 6304 (Analytical Methods for Business ). This is strictly enforced.  
 
Learning Objectives:  
 
To learn how to:  
• Assess and handle violations of regression assumptions.  
• Model count data, mixed -level data, classification data, temporal data, and survival data.  
• Preprocess data and engineer features from the data for analysis.  
• Implement advanced statistical models in R . 
• Interpret these models meaningfully to generate useful and usable insights . 
• Conceptualize, plan, conduct, and document real-world analytics project  from start to end . 
• Use data and analytics correctly and ethical ly. 
 
Books and Mater ials: 
 
Textbook : None . I will draw my personal knowledge and materials sourced from many books and online 
and offline sources.  
 
Readings, slides, data sets, and other materials:  Available on Canvas.  
 
Hardware/software: A Windows or Mac laptop. Download and install: (1) the R software from 
http://cran.r -project.org  and (2) R -Studio  from https://www.rstudio.com . If you are coming to the in-class 
sessions, b ring your laptop computer every class  for in-class  exercises . If attending online, a dual monitor 
system may be helpful.  
 
Grading:  
 
Grade components and weights:  
Individual Assignments  (eight ) 40% 
Exams  (two) 30% 
Team  Project ( one) 
In-class Quizzes  20% 
10%  2  
Tenative Grading scale:  A+: Over 97%, A: 93 -97%, A -: 90-93%, B+: 87 -90%, B: 83 -87%, B -: 80-83%, 
C+: 77 -80%, C: 73 -77%, C -: 70-73%, D+: 67 -70%, D: 63 -67%, D -: 60-63%, F: Below 60%  
Please note that the instructor reserves the right to curve the distribution of grades to ensure hom ogeneity 
with concurrent and past sections. Examples and grade projections will be offered in class.  
 
Assignments : 
 
Assignments are due at the start of class  on their assigned dates . Assignments must be submitted via 
Canvas, and  are date -stamped when submitted. Assignments will be graded not just for correctness, but 
also clarity of  approach  and cleanliness of code . I will discuss  my solutions in class , to show you the 
“professional” approach to solving these problems ; hence late  assignments are NOT acceptable . Students 
are encouraged to help each other on the assignments. However, assignments must represent your own 
individual effort. T here is a fine line between “taking help” and “plagiarizing .” I may cold-call you to 
explain yo ur assignment in class. If you cannot explain your work, you will lose points or even get zero 
grade on the assignment. A repeat offense will result in an F grade for the course and a report to the 
Dean’s Office.  
 
In-Class Quizzes : 
 
Short pop-quizzes ( about 5 or 6 multiple -choice questions) may be held toward the end of most classes to 
test what you have learned from the class. The quizzes will be based on materials that we covered in that 
class. You do  not have to prepare in advance for th ese quizzes, but you have to pay attention in class. 
Since most online students don’t pay attention to class lectures (e.g., browse Internet, check Facebook or 
Instagram, e -mail and chat with friends, etc.) thinking that there will be a recorded lecture th at they can 
access later, this is my strategy to keep you focused on class. The quizzes are not worth much, but can be 
the difference between an A and a B grade, or a B and a C grade.  
 
Exam s: 
 
There will be two online  exams  during the semester , worth 10 and 20  points  respectively . In each exam, 
you will be asked to solve one problem, and you will be graded based on not just what you did, but also 
on your thought process, and simplicity and elegance of code. Exams are open -book, open -notes, and 
open -Internet. They  are just like the assignments, but with  a restricted time period. H ence, the best way to 
prepare for an exam is to pay attention in clas s, completing assignments  by yourself , and continuously 
looking for w ays to improve  your solutions . Exams  will be similar to the “screening test” at Google or 
Microsoft, if you apply for a job  there . Exams  will be proctored using the online Proctorio software.  
 
Please also do NOT miss any exam  without a documented medical o r family emergency. A “documented 
emergency” must be accompanied with appropriate documentation such as a doctor’s note. Make -up 
exams  will be different from, and harder than, the regular quizzes.   
 
Team  Project : 
 
This term project, to be done in teams of 3 -4 students, is the heart of this class. In this project, you will 
apply the statistical concepts and methods you learned in class to solving a real -world data analytics 
problem. You will identify  a decision -makin g scenario of managerial or social relevance, source  
appropriate data, clean and merge the data  as needed , use the right model s, and derive actionable insights . 
Several times during the semester, you will present your intermediate project work , which will allow me 
to keep track of your progress and give you guidance . The final project report (10 -12 pages , plus  
appendix)  is due at the end of the semester . This report must includ e the following sections: (1) executive 
summary; (2) problem definition & significance; (3) prior literature; (4) data source  & preparation ; (5)  3 variable choice; (6) descriptive analysis  & data visualizations ; (7) data modeling; ( 8) quality checks; ( 9) 
actionable recommendations ; and ( 10) references; and (1 1) appendix (with R code) .  The project report 
must  be sufficient ly detailed , include appropriate graphics, and be of professional quality. See project 
report assignment on Canvas for further details . Sample projects are posted on Canvas for your use.  
 
In the past, I have seen teams spend so much time searching for the right project that they did not have 
sufficient time to do a quality job with the project. Starting early and allocating suffic ient time are 
absolutely critical for a good project. Your project t opic and data source must be approved by me before 
you can start working on the project. Please use authentic data sources that fully describe  the data 
collection process , which you must d iscuss in your report . Kaggle or UCI dataset of unknown quality is 
not acceptable; such data is good for personal learning, but not for serious analysis. Please avoid 
classification problems as that is not the focus of this class.  
 
Note that your professor  will compare your projects with similar projects on the Internet /Github , run a 
plagiarism check, and ask you to explain your work. Feel free to browse online  projects  and learn from 
them, but your work must be sufficiently original, practical, and useful. Downloading an online project, 
making minor modifications, and submitting as your team project will be considered “plagiarism” and get 
the entire project team  a zero grade .  
 
The professor is available to help you with your project throughout the semester. Please use this help. I do 
give extra -credit to teams who surpass my expectations, experiment with new methods and tools, and help 
the class learn something new.  In the past, students have used my class projects to get internships and 
jobs. But you can only do that if your project is sufficiently good!  
 
E-mail me the names of your team members and a tentative topic for your project before the second day 
of class. Choose your team members “intelligent ly”, making  sure that you have team members  proficient 
in R, in reading and understanding  technical papers, and in writing professional -quality report s. If 
someone in your team does not show up for team meetings or is perpetually  late with their work, you have 
the option to fire that person  by majority vote.   
 
Class Policies:  
 
Class Attendance and Etiquette:  I do not care if you come to class or not . If you skip  classes, you will 
struggle in the assignments and quizzes . Also, do not disrupt the class by coming to class late or leaving 
early. Arrive 15 minutes early rather than 5 minutes late.  
 
Cell Phones:  While in class, turn your cell phones to silen t mode, and step out of the class if you must 
take or make an important phone call. See USF’s official policy on class disruption at 
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAca demicProcess.pdf .  
 
Academic Integrity:  I have a zero-tolerance policy  for plagiarism.  Plagiarism includes presenting others’ 
work as your own , lifting materials from the Internet or other sources without attribution, and many 
others. Per USF policy, any such behavior will result in a zero grade for that grade component for the first 
offense, F grade in the class and report to the Dean’s Office for the second offense, and dismissal from 
USF for third offense. There will be no make up for plagiarized work. See USF’s official academic 
integrity policy at http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf . 
 
Free Riders:  Team members who regularly miss  team meetings or do not contribute adequately to their 
team project will receive at least one full letter grade lower than the rest of their team. There will be no 
make -up opportunitie s for free riders.  
  4 Disability:  Students requiring disability accommodations must register with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) office, and e -mail me a letter from SDS specifying your accommodation needs. See USF 
disability policies at  http://www.sds.usf.edu . 
 
Religio us Observance:  If you must miss class or a test because of religious reasons, you must notify me in 
writing at the start of the semester, so that I can make alternat e arrangements. See USF’s religious 
observance policy at http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf . 
 
Food and Housing Insecurity:  Students facing financial difficulty is securing a stable place to live or 
affording groceries are urged to visit the USF Feed -A-Bull website for assistance.  
 
Emergency:  In the  event of an emergency, it may be nece ssary for USF to suspend normal operations. 
During this time, USF may opt to deliver instruction through Canvas , Elluminate, Skype, e -mail, or 
alternate methods.  Please monitor Canvas for course -specific communication , and USF website and e -
mails for important general information.  
 
Please understand that this syllabus constitutes a CONTRACT  between you and me.  By registering for 
this class, you are agreeing to the terms and conditions as stated in this contract.  These terms will be 
strictly enforced, without exceptions.  If you find these terms unreasonable, you may drop the class and 
take it with a different professor.  
 
Class Schedule  
 
Week  Date  Topic  Due  
1 Feb 8  Introduction & Regression Refresher  - 
2 Feb 15  OLS  Assumptions  A1 (Credit Rating ),  
P1 (Names & Project Topic ) 
3 Mar 1  WLS/FGLS & Non-Linear Models   A2 (Online Retail Campaign)  
4 Mar 8  GLM  & Poisson Models  A3 (Medical Expense)  
5 Mar 15  Spring Break – No class   
6 Mar 22  MIDTERM EXAM  A4 (Doctor’s Visit),  
P2 (Prior Work & Variable Selection  
7 Mar 29  Multi -level and Panel Data Models   
8 Apr 5  Survival Models  A5 (Big Mart Sales)  
9 Apr 12  Classification Models  (OUT OF 
TOWN)  A6 (Lung Cancer)  
10 Apr 19  Time -Series Models  A7 (Telco Churn)  
11 Apr 26  Simultaneous Equation Models  A8 (Pricing & Promotions Analysis for a  
Retail Chain), P3 (Project Presentations)  
12 May 3  FINAL EXAM  P4 (Project Report)  
 
Note: The syllabus is tentative and subject to change. However, all such changes will be announced in 
class.  