         1  
 
 
 
Semester : Spring 202 3 
Delivery method : Online, Off -campus  
Location : Online / Off -campus  
Instructor : Dr. Quintin McGrath  
Instructor  email : qmcgrath@usf.edu  
Virtual Office Hours : Technology used  Microsoft Teams  
 Minimum Technical Skills & Requirements:   
In order  to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate 
proficiency in basic com puter skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the 
computer system requirements  listed at:  
 https://www.usf.edu/it/remote/requirements -for-students.aspx    
 
 
I. University  Course Description  
An introduction to the fundamentals of information systems including an examination 
of information technology terminology and concepts, alternative methodologies for 
developing information systems, and the application and impact of information 
technology in contemporary organizations.  
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
No prerequisites.  
 III. Course obj ectives  
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
• Analyze a tough socio -tech nical business decision and make a recommendation on the 
most feasible courses of action to the decision -maker in the organization.  
• Research and write -up a case discussion of a tough technology centric business decision 
being faced by an organization.  
• Demonstrate an ability to develop multiple plausible solutions to a tough business 
decision based upon empirical evidence identified in the course of the investigati on of 
the tough decision with an organization.  
 
ISM  6021  
Management Information  Systems   
(CRN: 50398, Section: 350, 2 Credit Hours)  
 
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 4/20/2023 2 IV. Instructor Contact Information and Communication  
Email is always the best way to contact me. Please avoid messaging me through Canvas 
because it is often unreliable. Instead, always use your USF email accoun t and include 
the name of our course somewhere in your email. Please allow 24 hours for a response and longer over the weekend. However, if you are emailing me to inform me of an 
urgent issue, please write ‘urgent’ in the subject line of the email.  
 
V. First Week Attendance Policy  
In the first week of class, you will be required to complete a First Day Attendance discussion 
board post to introduce yourself. Your post is due by Monday of the first week of class  at 
11:59pm. Students who do not complete the First  Day Attendance activity by the due date 
will be dropped from the course.  
 
VI. How to Succeed  in this Course  
One of my goals is to make this class as personally and professionally relevant to you as 
possible. To succeed in this course, follow the Course Schedule, regularly check our Canvas 
page  to make sure that you are up -to-date with deadlines, and ask questions anytime you 
would like clarification.  
 
VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials   
Managing and Using Information Systems  by Pearlson, Saunders, Galletta, 7th Ed, Wiley 
(ISBN 978-1- 119-56056- 2) 
 VIII. Supplementary  (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Slides, assignments, and case discussions are available on Canvas. Unless otherwise 
indicated, all materials in Canvas are required .   
 
IX. Grading Scale   
Grade  components:  Case Discussion Assignments (individual)  100%  
Pre-Case, Opening, Online Discussion, Post -Case Reflection  
 Grading  scale:  Letter  grades  as per USF policy  with letter grade +/ - awarded and 
calculated automatically on Canvas.  
 X. Instructor  Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
The instructor  will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 
48 hours of the date received. The instructor  will provide feedback on assignments within 
one week of the posted deadline and feedback on final papers within two weeks of the 
posted deadline. Graded tests and materials in this course will be returned individually only by request. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas
. 
 3 XI. Class Schedule: Available on Canvas  
Note: The schedule is tentative and may be subject to change. However, any and all 
such changes will be announced through Canvas or in class.  
 
XII. Standard University Policies   
Policies about disability access , religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed on the USF Core Syllabus Policy Statements page
 at 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx . 
 
XIII. Course  Policies:  
Late Work Policy  
Late work may be  accept ed – with at least a letter grade penalty . 
 
Extra Credit Policy  
There  is no extra  credit.  
 XIV. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
Title IX Policy  
Title IX provides federal protections  for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees , who are required to report any disclosures of sexual 
harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking. The Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, 
and to discuss possibl e options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or 
seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX 
Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx
.  
If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that 
can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enab le cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Turnitin.com  4 In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of 
web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each 
submission. After an assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from 
turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit: http://www.turnitin.com
. 
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the  end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s 
ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opini ons. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.  
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before cha nging 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines  
1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about.  
2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.  
 
XV. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
Canvas  
This course is offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 5 offered in Canvas, please consult the Canvas Student Guides . You may also contact USF's IT 
department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
XVI. Learning Support and Campus Offices   
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services 
(SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee  campus es. 
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success websit e. 
Office of Student Success website for the Tampa campus.  
Office of Student Success website for the St. Pete campus.  
Office of Student Success website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have  technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the C anvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your C anvas course. You can 
also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  by 
promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering 
support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Tampa campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the St. Pete campus.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center  promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  providing 
culturally sensitive counseling, con sultation, prevention, and training that enhances student 
academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.
 6 Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email: 
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring websi te for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus . 
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and gra duate  students. At the 
Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any point in 
the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  recommended, but 
not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email : 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio  website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XVII.  Important  Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see  the Academic Calendar  at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   