1 NEGOTIATION  & CONFLICT RES OLUTION 
MAN 4441 | Spring 2023 | Wednesday 6:30pm –09:15pm | CIS 2 084 
Instructor In formation 
Professor: P atrick R olando 
E-Mail: prolando@usf.edu
Phone/Message: Office 365 ‘USF Teams’
Office Hours: After class or by appointment
Prerequisite:  MAN 3240 with minimum C-
Course Description  
The course provides a basis for developing the skills necessary to effectively negotiate in both 
business and personal dealings. The course also provides the framework to effectively manage conflict 
through the means of communication, building trust, negotiation, mediation, arbitration, 
alternative dispute resolution techniques and similar practices. 
The class mat erial will include both theory and practical applications. In addition to lectures covering the 
topics discussed in your books, you will be expected to engage in class discussions/class exercises and 
to complete a Group project which will enhance your knowledge of the topic. 
Student Learning Outcomes  1.Understand the role that perception plays in developing/forming attitudes in negotiations.
2.Understand the concept of “power” and the role it plays in developing negotiating strategies.
3.Understand the differ ent theories of negotiations and how and when they should be applied.
4.Appreciate the ethical implications of different negotiating techniques.
5.Learn how to prepare for negotiations and what you need to do prior to engaging in negotiations.
6.Learn the importance of understanding the role cultural differences play in effective negotiations.
7.Understand the difference in negotiations between short -term gains versus long -term gains.
8.Appreciate the importance of communications in resolving and/or avoiding  conflict.
9.Appreciate the importance of establishing and maintaining long -term relationships.
10.Understand the role conflict -resolution and negotiation skills have played in resolving numerous
conflicts in today’s business world.
M
aterials  
The text is requi red, all other materials will  be provided via Canvas  or in class . 
R
equired  Text  
Corve tte, Barbara A., Conflict Management, Pearson Prentice Hall, Upper Sandle River, NJ , 2007. 
ISBN: 0- 13-119323-6 2 
 Assignments  
Class Participation/Flip  
Engaging  actively  with  the content  of this  course  will be essential  to your  learning.  Reading of 
materials before class are required and will help you have  a better  understanding  of what’s being  
discussed, and,  after  having  read  and  processed the content,  if there  is something  in there  that  you  don't  
understand,  you'll  be able  to ask about  it in class.  
All students are expected to prepare for and participate in class discussions. The participation component 
of the course grade is awarded for student’s constructive contributions to class discussion at every class 
meeting. Excellent participation requires thorough preparation, critical thinking, a cooperative attitude, 
and the willingness to share ideas.  
Participation will include a weekly entry into a Flip, the entries will be in different subjects. There are no 
requirements regarding the length of the entry. The Flip will be available via Canva assignment, and you 
will be responsible for submitting it in a timely manner.  The Flip will not help make it up your participation 
points for missed classes but  will assist if you are shy and prefer to don’t engage while attending class.  
Quizzes 
There are ten short quizzes due throughout the semester and it will have true/false (T/F) and multiple -
choice questions about class lecture  and discussions . Quizzes will be monitored using Honorlock, and it 
must be taken vi a Chrome browser with the Honorlock extension and can be taken in -person  before or 
after class, or from home by the due date.  
You will have 15 minutes to complete the Quiz  and 30 minutes to complete the Mid and Final kno wledge 
exams.   
 
Mid -term and Final Knowledge Check  
Mid -term and Final Knowledge check will be monitored using Honorlock, and it must be taken via Chrome 
browser with the Honorlock extension, it can be taken in person or from home by the due date.  
You will have 2 Knowledge Checks during the semester . One m id-way through the class and the second at 
the end of the semester. This will consist of 20 true/false and multiple -choice questions on the modules 
covered.  
You will have half an hour (30 minutes) to complete it.  
 
Negotiation and Conflict Management  (NCM) Project   
All project materials are to be submitted online via Canvas  by the due date. No exceptions.  
Working on an actual case is one of the best ways to understand  the negotiation and conflicts that 
individuals and companies might face.  In groups, you w ill identify an organization that is facing a negotiation scenario  and the conflicts around it, 
then you will tie that to the concepts being studied in class , and end with a propose d course of action 
using the knowledge and skills you have developed throug h this course and your management courses.  
 The project can be completed in one of two ways:  
1. You can partner with a local organization, with which you will work directly. This type of project requires 
a great deal of primary research; that is, you will need work closely with the organization to gather your 
own data.  
2. You can research a mid-  or large- sized organization of your team’s choosing and research it using 
secondary sources –  sources that are already available.  3 
 Your team will serve in the role o f a management consulting firm. You will examine and assess the 
organization, identify negotiation  issues the organization currently faces, and make recommendations for 
how the organization should address those issues. A detailed rubric will be provided on Canvas.  
The project is divided into three papers (2 -3 pages for papers 1 -2, paper 3  will be a combo of all papers, and 
should include an executive summary page, recommendations,  and references) and a group presentation. 
All papers should use 1.5 line for spacing and include  the group # along with all the group member names. 
The details of each component are as follows:  
 
Paper 1: Identification of one or more specific problems the organization currently faces.  
This paper should introduce the organization and its industry. In addition, it should define the problem, 
and present data/evidence to discuss why this conflict is important to the organization.  
 
Paper 2: Analysis of the pro blem(s) you identified in Paper 1. This paper should include your analysis of the 
root causes of the problem (e.g., why does this problem exist for the organization). Again, you should rely 
on data and evidence to support your assertions, as well as concep ts and principles from this course and 
previous courses that can help you understand why the problem is occurring.  
 
Paper 3 : Final Report . This paper should include all two previous sections, with improvements based on 
feedback received, and integrated ac ross group members. Recommendations for the organization -  This 
paper should include your group’s recommendations for how the organization can fix the problem(s) you identified and analyzed in the previous papers.  Since it is a final report, you should con dense and 
summarize the writing with appropriate citations/references. You should also include an executive 
summary at the beginning of the paper.  
 
Make it professional, refrain from personal opinion , set the tone as a consulting company delivering a 
report , and for the school learning purpose, Adhere as closely as possible to Corvette, Barbara A. (2007) 
Conflict Management . 
 
 Group presentation  
This  course  is a very practical  one. The  primary  way  in which  we will put knowledge  into  practice  is 
through  the NCM  Project.  In team  of 3 to 4 members,  each group will make a presentation summarizing 
your final report to the class at the end of the semester. Each group member is expected to speak during the presentation (in person, via Teams, or via recorded presentation). Each member of the Group will be 
evaluated based on his/her overall contribution to the Group’s effort based on my evaluation of his/her preparation, contribution, and oral presentation of the Group Project.  
The r eason why this is called a “Group Project” is because every member of the group is responsible for 
the final product.  This means that every member of the group needs to be thoroughly familiar with every part of the project.  
An excellent presentation prov ides concise, useful information about your analysis and how that analysis 
informs your recommendations. You should present your ideas clearly and, whenever possible, provide 
prescriptive advice and suggestions. You may incorporate multimedia to make your presentation creative 
and engaging, such as video clips, audio clips, website demonstration, etc.  
Plan for 15 -30 minutes presentation. You should not go more than 30  or less than 15 , including time for 
questions from the class. Dress for Presentation Day is to be Business Casual . 
All project materials are to be submitted online via Canvas by the due date. No exceptions.  4 
 Although  some  students  prefer  working  in groups,  others  do not.  For those  of you  who  feel  some  
reservations  about  this idea  (as I often  did as a student),  here  is the rationale  behind  why  I am 
organizing the assignment  this way.  First,  this  project will  be a hefty workload for  one person to address  
on his/her  own.  Having teammates will allow you to distribute  that  workload. Second,  having  multiple  
team  members  expands  your  professional  network,  increasing  the chances  of finding  a business  that  
will open  its doors  to you  to collect  data.  Third,  while  conducting  this project,  you  will likely  run into  
problems,  and  the solutions  may  not be readily  apparent.  If such  an event  occurs,  it will be helpful  to 
have  the intellectual and emotional support of some colleagues.  
 
Group Issues  
I strongly urge student to use your team building skills to create cohesion in your group from the 
beginning. However, if any challenges do arise in the group and student cannot resolve it amicably 
among ourselves, please come and see me as soon as possible. Do remember that I will not 
accommodate your concerns if student wait to voice th em till the project deadline is looming upon 
student.  A peer- review will be required after each group assignment submission.  
Summary  of Assignments  
 
Category (% of grade)  Specific Assignment  Points  % of Grade  
Class Participation/ Flip (20%)  In class evaluation  200  20%  
Quizzes (20%)  10 quizzes  200  20% each  
Mid Term (12%)  20 Quiz questions  120 12%  
Final (12%)  20 Quiz questions  120 12%  
 
 
 
NCM Project (36%)  Team Plan 1 – 3 60 2.0% each  
Paper 1 25 2.5%  
Paper 2 50 5% 
Paper 3 – Final Report  65 6.5%  
Group Presentation Performance  160 16%  
Grading  
Final grades will  be calculated  by summing all the points you have accumulated in the course. Grades will  
be determined using the grading scale shown below.  
 
     
 
Policies  
Communication  
The  best  way  to contact  me is through  email.  I answer  non -time sensitive emails  within 24/48 hours  on 
weekdays.  I may  respond to it less  frequently on weekends and  holidays;  There  may  be times  during  the 
semester when  I do not have  access  to email.  I will be sure  to notify  you if such situations occur.  
 A 900 – 1000 B 800 – 899 C 700 – 799 D 600 – 699 F ≥ 599 5 
 To avoid confusion on my part,  please follow the following guidelines when sending emails:  
1. Use only this email address:  prolando@usf.edu   
2. Identify yourself as a student in MAN 4441  in either the subject line or the first paragraph of your 
email.  
3. Always sign your emails, so that I know who sent them.  
4. Treat  your  emails  as professional  communications ––use proper  grammar,  punctuation,  and  
spelling,  and  avoid  internet shorthand.  
I will hold myself  to the same  standards  I expect  of you.  Emails  that  I receive  that  do not adhere  to the 
guidelines  above  will not be answered.  
 
Technology  in the Classroom  
Regarding  computers  and  tablets,  feel  free  to use them  in class  for taking  notes.  Keep  in mind,  though,  that  
the research  on this  topic  shows  that  taking  notes  by hand  helps  you  to retain  information  better  than  
taking  notes  on a computer  (Mueller  & Oppenheimer,  2014).  Regarding  cell phones,  all I ask is that  you  
exercise good  judgment.  If you  need  to send  a text  message,  feel  free  to do so quickly  and  quietly.  
Similarly,  if you  need  to make  or take  a phone  call,  please  just  step  out of the classroom.  
 
General Attendance  
Students can have one excused absence WITH prior notice. Students who have more than one absence 
will lose 2 percentage points for each additional class missed beyond that.  These include excused and 
unexcused absences. If a student is absent for 3 or more times, the teacher and student will meet to 
discuss the possible options including withdrawal from the course.  A student is not considered to have 
attended class unless they are present for most the class (>60%).  
Presentation Day Attendance:  It is impo rtant to be respectful towards your classmates’ efforts.  
Therefore, one additional percentage point (3 percentage points per class) will be deducted for each 
unexcused absence or tardiness on any of the presentation days. To be excused, an excuse must be a 
valid reason and given PRIOR to the presentation.  
 
Late Submissions  
Submissions will be penalized by 2% for the first 24  hours that they are late. An additional 5% will be 
deducted to the submission grade every 24 hours thereafter.  
 
Academic  Integrity  
The  Academic  integrity  means  honesty and  responsibility  in scholarship.  Here  are the basic  assumptions  
about  academic  work:  (1) Students  attend  university  in order  to learn and  grow,  (2) academic  
assignments  exist  for the sake  of this goal, (3)  grades  exist  to show  how  fully  the goal  is attained,  (4) 
thus,  all work  and  all grades  should  result  from  the student's  own  effort to learn  and  grow.  Academic  
work  completed  any other  way  is pointless,  and  grades  obtained  any other  way  are fraudulent.  
Academic  integrity  means  understanding  and  respecting  these  basic  truths,  without which no 
university can exist.  Academic  misconduct  -- "cheating"  -- is not just "against  the rules";  it violates  the 
assumptions  at the heart  of all learning.  It destroys  the mutual  trust  and  respect  that  should  exist  
between student  and  professor.  Finally,  it is unfair  to students  who earn their grades honestly.  
Academic dishonesty is a  completely unacceptable  mode  of conduct  and persons  involved in academic 
dishonesty will be  disciplined  in accordance  with  university  regulations  and  procedures.  Discipline  may  6 
 include  suspension or expulsion  from  the University.  Academic  dishonesty  includes  but is not limited  to 
cheating  (e.g.,  looking  on another  person's  exam  or allowing  them  to look  on yours),  plagiarism,  
collusion,  the submission  for credit  of any work  or materials  that  are attributable  in whole  or in part  to 
another  person  (i.e.,  copying  someone else's  work, allowing  someone to do your  papers  or take  your  
exams  for you),  taking  an examination  for another  person,  any act designed  to give  unfair  advantage  to 
a student or the attempt to commit such acts.   
 
Students with Disabilities  
Students in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to arrange appropriate accommodations. Students are required to give reasonable notice 
prior to requesting an accommodation. A letter fr om SDS must accompany this request. Student 
responsibilities: http://www.sds.usf.edu  
 
University Policy on Religious Observances  
No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit f or an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or 
her religious belief.  In accordance with the University policy on observance of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be absent for a class or annou nced examination 
prior to the scheduled meeting.  
 
Honorlock 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing 
requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course i s an agreement 
to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the 
end of the drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be 
requir ed to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permi ssion of any person residing in the 
residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and s tudents 
with concerns m ay discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or 
advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third- party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and high -
speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. To us e 
Honorlock students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome extension  (Links to 
an external  site.) ." For additional information please visit the  USF online proctoring student FAQ  (Links  to an 
extern al site.)  and  Honorlock student resources  (Links  to an external  site.) .  
 
Turnitin.com  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to 
quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous 
database of student papers that grows with e ach submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit 
all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 7 
 receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
 
Campus Free Expression  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent 
ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these 
principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even 
offensive.  
 
In the instructional  setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be 
tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain 
ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex 
ideas a nd to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you 
are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Course Calendar on the next page.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 8 
 Course Calendar*  
 
Dates  Topic  Readings  Assignments  Due  
1/11   Introductions, syllabus review   Per USF policy, mandatory attendance for everyone.  
 
1/18 Module 1  
Negotiation /Conflict Management Overview  Chapter 01  Honorlock Test |SKA submission | Flip entry  
Project Team s Formation  
1/25 Module 2  
Personality  
 Chapter 02  Quiz 1  
Plan of work 1  Due  
Group Meet   
 
2/1 Module 3  
Conflict  
In Class Game  
 
 Chapter 03  Quiz 2 
Paper 1 Due  
 
 
2/8 Module 4  
Negotiation Style  
In Class Activity  
 
 Chapter 04  Quiz 3  
 
2/15 
 Module 5 
Key Negotiating Temperaments  
 Chapter 05  Quiz 4   
Plan of work 2 Due  
Group Meet  
 
2/22 Module 6  
Communicating in Negotiation  
In Class Game 2 / Mid -Term Prep  
 Chapter 06 Quiz 5 
Paper 2 Due  
3/1 Module 7  
A Note on Cultural and Gender Differences  Chapter 0 7 Quiz 6 
Mid -Term  
3/8 Module 8  
Interests and Goals in Negotiation  Chapter 08 Quiz 7  
Plan of work 3 Due  
Group Meet  
 3/15  Spring break  9 
 Dates  Topic  Readings  Assignments  Due  
3/22  Module 9  
Perception in Negotiation  
 Chapter 09  Quiz 8  
Final Report Due  
 
3/29  Module 10  
Power  
In Class Game 3 -  Finals  
 Cha pter 10  Quiz 9  
 
4/5 Module 11  
Asserting Yourself  
 
 Chapter 11  Quiz 10  
Group Meet – Project Presentation Prep  
 
4/12    Module 12  
  Principles of Persuasion 
 
 
 
 Chapter 12  Project Presentation  
 
4/19  Module 13  
Rules of Negotiation and Common Mistakes  
 
 Chapter 13  Project Presentation  
 
4/26    Module 14  
  The Negotiation Process and Preparation  Chapter 14  
 Project Presentation  
 
5/3   Module 15  
Alternative Styles, Strategies, and Techniques of    
Negotiation  Chapter 15  
 Project Presentation  
Final Exam  
*The course calendar  is subject to change at the instructor /school ’s discretion.  