Syllabus revise d: 1/4/2023          1  
 
 
 
Course Prefix  and Number: MAN 3240  
Course Title : Organizational Behavior Analysis  
CRN 80944 , Section 791, 3 credit hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days: Fridays  
Class Meeting Time: 11:00am -1:45pm  
Class Meeting Location: LPH 215  
Instructor:  Nichole Solomon  
Office Location:  NA 
Office Hours:  By appointment  
Email:  nasolomon@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
This course is designed to help you better understand what drives the attitudes and behavior of 
people  in organizations with the goal of helping you improve your “soft” skills so that you can 
more effectively engage, motivate and ultimately lead others.  
The first person  you need to learn to lead is yourself, so a portion of this course will invite you to 
self-reflect and chart out your own professional development course. I am excited to lead you on 
this journey and serve as your instructor, teacher, facilitator, guide, and coach.  
 
II. University Course Description  
The course covers research literature relevant to organizational functioning including behavioral 
effects of power and authority, formal organization, structural variation, leadership, motivation, 
and communication.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
MAN 3025 with a g rade of “C” or better  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the various factors 
driving the attitudes and behavior of individuals in organizations. Using both theory and 
application, we will examine how principles underlying management and social and behavioral 
science can be used to effectively understand ourselves and each other. Ultimately , this course 
aims to help students develop the necessary “soft skills” that will enable them to work e ffectively 
with others.  
 
 
 
2 V. Course Format  
This is an in -person course  scheduled for each Friday from 11:00am -1:45pm . Students should 
expect course content for the upcoming week to be published on Sunday evening/Monday 
morning. The Course Schedule  section of the syllabus outlines each week’s assignments and 
submission deadlines.   
 
The instructor will communicate information and course content to the class primarily via Canvas 
using the course home page, announcements, and modules. This course will utilize:  
• In Class and Pre-recorded lectures - To review organizational behavior theory  
• Quizzes - To assess student knowledge of organizational behavior theory  
• Individual Assignments  (Mission Statement  Exercises,  Reflection Exercises , Journal 
Report )- To reinforce theory and provide practice  for practical application of 
organizational theory  
• Discussion Boards - To encourage student participation, engagement and discussion on 
organizational behavior topics.  
• In Class Participation Activities - To encourage in class student participation and 
engagement on organizational behavior topics.  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
 
Upon  successful  completion of  this course,  students  will be able  to: 
• Comprehend  and explain  major  theories,  concepts,  and principles  of 
organizational behavior (OB).  
• Apply  major  theories,  concepts,  and principles  of OB and leadership  correctly  in 
new situations  
• Analyze  issues  of OB using  appropriate  methods  
• Create  and evaluate  solutions  based  on scientific  knowledge  and evidence  
 
VII. Course Objectives  
• Identify personality traits that potentially impact behavior in organizations.  
• Explain how perception affects attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors.  
• Identify expectancy and equity theories of motivation.  
• Identify strategies for emotional regulation and their  likely effects.  
• Recognize different theories of leadership.  
• Demonstrate awareness of the impact of individual and group behavior on the outcomes of 
the organization.  
• Explain interpersonal conflict -handling strategies.  
• Describe the barriers to effective  communication.  
• Compare rational and bounded rationality models of decision making.  
• Explain the role of organization culture in maintaining an ethically responsible organization.  
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• TEXT:  Robbins,  S. P., & Judge,  T. A. (2023) Organizational  Behavior  (19th Ed). 
Boston, MA: Pearson ISBN 978013 7474646  
• All other course materials including pre -recorded lectures,  can be found in Canvas.  
  
 
3 IX. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
• None required.  
 
X. How to Succeed in this Course  
This course  will include  a lot of reading, individual reflection assignments, and discussion board 
participation. S uccessful students:  
• Check  Canvas  and email  daily  for announcements .  
• Complete  all assigned  readings  by the deadlines outlined in the course schedule.  
• Follow the course schedule and meet all deadlines for assignment submission.  
• Provide thoughtful responses to discussion board responses and individual /reflection 
exercises.  
• Utilize inst ructor feedback given on individual and reflection exercises to improve on 
subsequent submissions.  
• Are willing  to discuss  the readings  as well as  their  own  work -related  insights  
and experiences with the class  via the discussion boards.  
• Maintain professionalism and treat everyone, including and especially 
themselves, with respect, honesty, and compassion when interacting via the 
discussion boards.  
• Ask questions  when  they  don’t  understand something . Utilize in structor office hours when 
support is needed.  
 
 
XI. Academic Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, em ails, and  ALERTUSF  messages 
for important general information ( USF Policy  6-010).  As this is an asynchronous course, an 
emergency may not interfere or change how this course is delivered.  If an emergency does 
necessitate a change to course format or delivery, the instructor will communicate these change s 
via email and Canvas announcements.   
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Final  Letter  Grades  Grading  Criteria  Points  
A+ 97.00%  and above  1212.5 0-1250 .00 
A 93.00%  -96.99%  1162.50 -1212.49  
A- 90.00  - 92.99%  1125.00 -1162.49  
B+ 87.00  - 89.99%  1087.50 -1124.99  
B 83.00  - 86.99%  1037.50 -1087.49  
B- 80.00  - 82.99%  1000.00 -1037.49  
C+ 77.00  - 79.99%  962.50 -999.99  
C 73.00  - 76.99%  912.50 -962.49  
C- 70.00  - 72.99%  875.00 -912.49  
D+ 67.00  - 69.99%  837.50 -874.99   
 
4 D 63.00  - 66.99%  787.50 -837.49  
D- 60.00 - 62.99%  750.00 -787.49  
 
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  Points  
Journal  Report  20% 250 
Quizzes  20% 250 
Reflection Exercises  20% 250 
Mission Statement Exercises  20% 250 
Discussion Board Participation  10% 100 
In Class Participation  10%  150 
 
  
Article  Report  (3–4-page report; 250 points total)  
There is one 3-4-page article  report assigned in this course. The purpose of this assignment is to 
provide students the opportunity to focus on one organizational behavior topic. This is not a 
research assignment in the traditional sense.  For your article assignment, you will choose one 
article  (hard copy or digital; reliable, vetted sources only/no blogs) pertaining to organizational 
behavioral topics  and write about  it. The article MUST focus on organizational behavior topics  in 
this business environment .  All articles must be timely in that t hey must have originated within 
the time frame of your class . All articles must be published within the last year of when you are 
taking this course . Examples of topics for your journal report include leadership, communication, 
DEI, resiliency in business,  ESG, workplace culture, and social/corporate responsibility , etc.  If you 
have any questions related to topic/article selection, please reach out to the instructor. A rubric 
will be shared to assist students with this assignment.  
 
 
Quizzes  (5 quizzes at  50 points each; 250 total)  
There are 5 Quizzes covering multiple concepts covered in the textbook. Each quiz will contain 10-
25 questions (true/false, multiple choice) worth a total of 50 points. The purpose of the quizzes is 
to motivate student s to read the assigned textbook chapters. Due dates for each quiz are 
presented in the course schedule section of the syllabus. Quizzes that are not completed by the 
due dates listed in the schedule will receive a zero.  Students will only receive one atte mpt per 
quiz . Quizzes are open book, open notes.  
 
 
Reflection Exercises  (5 reflection exercises at  50 points each; 250 total)  
There are 5 Reflection Exercise assignments. The purpose of these assignments is to provide 
students with an opportunity to demonstrate their ability to understand and apply various 
concepts from class . Research indicates that written reflection exercises help facilitate learning 
and can help concretize associations in memory. Reflection exercises should not exce ed one page, 
double spaced. A template and rubric will be shared to assist students with this assignment.  
 
 
  
 
5 Mission Statement Exercises  (5 mission statement exercises at 5 0 points each; 250 total)  
There are 5 Mission Statement Exercise assignments. Mission Statement assignments provide 
students with an opportunity to self -reflect, strategize, and outline personal and professional 
goals. The objective of these assignments is to develop clear, persona lly meaningful, mission 
aligned goals . A template and rubric will be shared to assist students with this assignment.  
 
 
Discussion Board Participation  (2 discussion board responses at  50 points each; 100 total)  
There are 2 Discussion Board Question assignments . The purpose of the discussion board is to 
facilitate peer to peer discussion and engagement. Discussion Board questions will be posted on 
Sunday evening/Monday morning. Full credit  (up to 50 points ) for  discussion board participation 
requires students to respond to the discussion board question AND  to reply to two peer ’s 
responses. Partial credit  (up to  35 points ) will be given for responding  to the discussion board 
question AND  replying to at least one peer’s response. Some credit  (up to  25 points ) will be given 
for responding to the discussion board question. Responses in the discussion board should be well 
thought out , demonstrate critical thinking skills , and serve to generate  healthy conversation and 
dialogue with your peers on the assigned topic . A one sentence response does not constitute a 
well written response . A rubric will be shared to assist students with this assignment.  Please refer 
to the Netiquette Guidelines  secti on of the syllabus for tips and best practices in posting in the 
discussion board environment.  
 
 
In Class Participation (150 total points)  
In Class Attendance and Participation is crucial to ensure students do not miss important material, 
are provided the opportunity to think more critically about course topics, develop relationships 
with peers and the instructor and ultimately are prepared f or success with assignments and 
quizzes. There will be graded in class assignments that will provide you with the opportunity to 
earn points for in class participation.  If you do not attend class, you will not be given the 
opportunity to earn points for t hese assignments.  
 
XIV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of 
the date received. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one week of the posted 
deadline. Graded materials in this course will be returned ind ividually via Canvas. You can access 
your scores anytime using “Grades” in Canvas.  
 
 
XV. Course Schedule . 
The schedule for this course is outlined below. Use this schedule to guide you through each week 
of the semester. Each week of the semester requires pre -work and assignments due. Students 
should expect course content for the upcoming week to be published on Sunday evening/Monday 
morning. The instructor reserves the right to change the syllabus as necessary . Students are 
responsible for changes announced via Canvas and/or emails.   
 
6 Date  Pre-Work  
Complete Before Class  Weekly Assignments  
Due by 11:59pm on each Thursday  
Week 1: 1/9/2023 -
1/15/2023  Review Syllabus  
Read Chapter 1 - What is 
OB? • Read Chapter 1 - What is OB?  
• Review Video - Organizational Behavior Chapter 1 - What is 
Organizational Behavior?  
MLK Holiday - 1/16  
Week 2: 1/17/2023 -
1/22/2023   Read Chapter 1 - What is OB?  
 • Quiz # 1- Chapter 1  
• Discussion Board Question  #1- Work Experiences  
• Mission Statement Exercise  #1- Defining your Mission Statement  
Due 1/26 - by 11:59pm  
 
Week 3: 1/23/2023 - 
1/29/2023  
  Read Chapter 2 - Diversity in 
Organizations  • Review Videos - Diversity in Organizations  
• Reflection Exercise #1 - DEI 
Due 2/2- by 11:59pm  
 
Week 4: 1/30/2023 - 
2/5/2023  Read Chapter 3 - Attitudes 
and Job Satisfaction  
Read Chapter 4 - Emotions 
and Moods  • Review Video - Attitudes and Job Satisfaction - Chapter 3  
• Review Video - Emotions and Moods - Chapter 4  
• Quiz # 2- Chapters 2, 3 & 4 
• Mission Statement Exercise  #2- Outlining Personal and Professional 
Goals  
Due 2/9- by 11:59pm  
Week 5:  2/6/2023 - 
2/12/2023  Read Chapter 5 - Personality 
and Values  
Read Chapter 6 - 
Perceptions and Individual 
Decision Making  • Review Video - Personality and Values - Chapter 5  
• Review Video - Perceptions & Individual Decision Making - Chapter  6   
• Discussion Board -#2 Values and Decision Making  
Due 2/16 - by 11:59pm  
Week 6: 2/13/2023 - 
2/19/2023  Read Chapter 7 - Motivation 
Concepts  
Read Chapter 8 - Motivation 
from Concepts to 
Application  • Review Video - Motivation Concepts - Chapter 7  
• Review Video - Motivation from Concepts to Application - Chapter 8  
• Reflection Exercise #2 - Motivation  
• Mission Statement Exercise  #3- Goal Action Planning  
Due 2/23 - by 11:59pm  
Week 7: 2/20/2023 - 
2/26/2023  Read Chapter 9 - 
Foundations of Group 
Behavior  
Read Chapter 10 - 
Understanding Work Teams   
• Review Video - Foundations of Group Behavior - Chapter 9  
• Review Video - Understanding Work Teams - Chapter 10  
Due 3/2- by 11:59p m 
Week 8: 2/27/2023 -
3/5/2023  Read Chapter 11 - 
Communication  • Review Video - Communication - Chapter 11  
• Reflection Exercise #3 - Communication  
• Quiz #3 - Chapters 5 -10 
Due 3/9- by 11:59pm  
Week 9: 3/6/2023 -
3/12/2023  Read Chapter 12 - 
Leadership  • Review Video - Leadership - Chapter 12  
 
Spring Break  
Week 10: 3/13/2023 -
3/19/2023  Spring Break! Enjoy and Be Safe       
Week 11: 
3/20/2023 -
3/26/2023  Read Chapter 13 - Power 
and Politics  • Review Video - Power and Politics - Chapter 13  
• Reflection Exercise #4 - Leadership  
• Final opportunity to submit Journal Report Rough Draft  
Due 3/23 - by 11:59pm  
Week 12: 
3/27/2023 -4/2/2023  Read Chapter 14 - Conflict 
and Negotiation  • Review Video - Conflict and Negotiation - Chapter 14  
• Quiz #4 - Chapters 11 -14 
• Mission Statement Exercise #4 - Measuring Success  
Due 3/30 - by 11:59pm   
 
7  
 
 
 
 
XVI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to 
revie w these online : usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -
policy -statements.aspx     
 
 
XVII. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work Policy :  
All assignments are due at class time on the date specified in  the course schedule section of 
the syllabus. Absolutely NO late assignments will be accepted. Rare exceptions may be  
granted ONLY in the event of a verifia ble emergency  as determined by the professor.  
 
Medical Excuses :  
To be approved for missed or late assignments a verification of care letter must be presented 
by the student to the faculty member upon return to class.   
 
Extra Credit Policy :  
There are no opportunities to earn extra credit in this course .  
 Week 13: 4/3/2023 -
4/9/2023  Read Chapter 15 - 
Foundations of 
Organizational Structure  
Read Chapter 16 - 
Organizational Culture  • Review Video - Foundations of Organizational Structure - Chapter 15  
• Review Video - Organizational Culture - Chapter 16  
Mission Statement Exercise #5 - Holding Yourself Accountable  
Due 4/6 - by 11:59pm  
Week 14: 
4/10/2023 -
4/16/2023  
 Read Chapter 17 - Human 
Resources Policies and 
Practices  
Read Chapter 18 - 
Organizational Change and 
Stress Management  • Review Video - Human Resources Policies and Practices - Chapter 17  
• Review Video - Organizational change and Stress Management - 
Chapter 18  
• Quiz #5 - Chapters 15 -18 
• Reflection Exercise #5 - Organizational Change  
Due 4/13 - by 11:59pm  
Week 15: 
4/17/2023 -
4/23/2023  Work on Final Report  • No assignments due  
 
Week 16:  
4/24/2023 -
4/30/2023  
4/28/2023 - Final Day 
of Classes  Work on Final Report  • FINAL JOURNAL REPORT DUE by 11:59pm on 4/27/2022  
 
4/29/2023 --
5/4/2023  Final Exam Week  No Final Exam in this course  
    
 
8  
Grades of "Incomplete" : 
The current univ ersity policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a 
passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. 
For undergraduate students, this time li mit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether 
or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate 
students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by 
the end of the time limi t will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or 
other circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete 
and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is 
due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all inc omplete assignments. 
The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not 
exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses and  one semester  for graduate courses  from 
the original date grades were due for that course.  An "I " grade not cleared within the  two 
semesters for under graduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (including 
summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Attendance Policy:   
While there is no formal attendance policy for this course, it is critical that students attend all 
classes. Students’ active participation and engagement in class helps to reinforce the learning of 
the course content and fosters relationship building among peers and the  instructor. There will 
be graded in class participation activities that will occur. Students must be in class to attain 
points for these in class activities.     
 
Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to s upport an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. 
Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offen sive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not 
as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous d ebate, and that the idea(s) is 
supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide 
that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be 
asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. 
Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
 
 
  
 
9 Make -up Exams Policy :  
There are no exams in this course. Quizzes must be com pleted by the published deadline 
included in the course schedule of the syllabus.  No makeup quizzes or extensions on quiz 
completion will be granted.  
 
 
Essay Commentary Policy :  
Commentary on written assignments  will be delivered in written format. However, upon 
request, an alternate delivery method can be used. If desired, instructor comments will be 
made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 through Canvas . This approach yields 
far fewer written comments, but much more commentary in general is delivered, due to the 
speed and specificity of speech. Those requesting mp3 feedback must state so when the 
assignment is turned in.  
 
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s 
final examination policy . There are no final exams for this course.   
 
XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media   
 
Canvas :  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas h elp guides. You may also contact 
USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication :  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, e tc.) to communicate 
with fellow students, it is important to remember that academic integrity policies still apply in 
these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests /quizzes  is prohibited by the 
official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an examination. Students are 
expected and required to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.  
 
 
XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Health and Wellness :  
Your health is a priority at the University of South Florida. We encourage members of our 
community to look out for each another and to reach out for help if someone is in need. If you 
or someone you know is in distress, please make a  referral at www.usf.edu/sos  so that the 
Student Outreach & Support can contact and provide helpful resources to the student in 
distress. A 24 -hour licensed mental healthcare professional, offered through the counseling 
center, is available by phone at 813 -974-2831, option 3. Please remember that asking for help 
is a sign of strength. In case of emergency, please dial 9 -1-1. 
 
 
  
 
10 Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may n ot use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese website s (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  Explain the evaluations and context.  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window o pens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
 
Turnitin.com:   
 In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors 
may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. Af ter the 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and 
how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this 
process visit http://www.t urnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficul t to 
read.   
 
11 4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with  Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enha nce 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas  Technical Support  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emai ling help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete camp us. 
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
Example : The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
Example : The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training tha t  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling C enter website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
Example:  The Tutoring Hu b offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.   
 
12  
Writing Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio  website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXI. Important Dates to Remember  
 
Add a short statement that describes that all the dates and assignments are tentative and can be 
changed at the discretion of the professor. For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
Example:  
MLK Holiday  Jan 16, 2023  
Mid-term Grading Opens : Feb 20, 2023  
Mid-term Grading Closes : Mar 7, 2023  
Spring Break  Mar 13 -Mar 19, 2023  
Withdrawal Deadline:  Mar 25, 2023  
Test Free Week  Apr 22 -28, 2023  
Last Day of Classes : Apr 28, 2023  
Final Examination Week : Apr 29 -May 4, 2023  