  
 
 
MAN 4402  
Employment Laws  
CRN 2 3923 , Section 521, 3 Credit Hours  
 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  Wednesdays  
Class Meeting Time:  5:00pm – 7:45pm  
Class Meeting Location:  Sarasota -Manatee Campus A217  
Instructor:  Bruce Gallagher  
Office Location : Sarasota -Manatee  
Office Hours:  Upon Request  
Email:  bgallagher12@usf.edu   
Phone: 814-598-5532  
 
 
I. University Course Description  
This course covers Federal and state laws and regulations such as wage and hour laws; EEO; 
affirmative action programs; employee benefits; insurance; workers’ compensation, safety, 
health, employee’s personal rights and collective bargaining.  
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
None required.  
 
III. Course Format  
Hybrid: Hybrid is 50-79% of the direct instruction of the course is delivered using some form of 
technology when the student and instructor are separated by time, space, or both . Faculty may 
require all s tudents to attend certain classes in person . 
 
IV. Student Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students will be able to:  
• Understand how employment/labor laws originated an d their evolution.  
• Recognize the existence of legal issues in the pre-employment process and how to avoid 
violating employment laws and regulations.  
• Understand the role of government in ensuring organizations comply with 
nondiscriminatory employment practices under the Civil Rights Act.  
• Understand and explain the impact different laws and regulations have on employees’ 
compensation and benefits plans such as Department of Labor overtime requirements, 
Workers’ Compensation.  
• Explain the rights to unionization employees enjoy under the National Labor Relations Act 
and Flori da Public Employees Relations Act.  
• Understand the role of the judiciary in interpreting employment law issues.  
 
 
2 • Understand the role third party neutrals play in mediating/arbitrating workplace 
employment disputes.  
 
V. Course Objectives  
To provide students with a working knowledge and understanding of how employment law 
originates, evolves and impacts the work place. We will discuss and analyze the role supervisors 
and managers play in ensuring that organizations protect the organizations  from legal liability by 
understanding the rights of employees in the work place.  
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Employment Law for Business , by Bennett -Alexander. 10th edition. McGraw -Hill.  
ISBN: 9781260734270   
 
VII. Grading Scale  
We have two exams, a midterm, which counts for 40% of your grade, and a Final Exam, which 
counts for 40% of your grade. These two added together add up to 80% of your grade.  
Points for Participation (20%) will be discussed in class.  
 
Grading Scale : 
90-100 A 
80 - 89 B 
70 - 79 C 
60 - 69 D 
0 - 59 F 
 
Business Program Learning Goals (Skill(s) and Perspective(s)) Addressed in This Course:  
 
Written and Oral 
Communication  Information 
Technology 
Skills  Innovation and 
Critical Thinking  Ethics and 
Sustainability  Global and 
Multicultural 
Competence  
3 
(a) 1 
(b) 5 
(c) 5 
(d) 2 
(e) 
(See below)  
(a) Each student will complete at least one written exercise and participate in active class 
discussions which will constitute the Participation part of your grade.  
(b) While not an active requirement of the class, this knowledge and skill is a part of all modern 
academic work for communication and learning enhancement.  
(c) A major purpose of this class, in addition to exposure to the subject matter, is to help the 
student d evelop critical thinking skills useful in life and the workplace. Continual innovation is 
fully necessary for success in any business environment.  
(d) Ethical action and decision making is a major component of economic and business 
sustainability. This class w ill focus on this feature of business management.  
(e) While some management skills are universal, the nature of business in today’s world requires 
knowledge and competence that are local, regional, national and international.  
  
 
3 VIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  
Participation Points  20%  
Midterm  40% 
Final Exam  40% 
 
Exams  
There will be two exams given. Each exam will consist of multiple -choice and true/false. The 
exams will cover the material discussed in class as well as the assigned readings. The exams will 
cover only the material covered prior to the exam.  
 
Absence from  Examinations  
Exams must be taken at the scheduled time unless a valid excuse with supporting documentation 
is given. A doctor’s note saying that you were physically unable to take an exam is required. 
Stating that you saw a doctor on a specific date in no t sufficient. If a make -up exam is to be 
considered, the student must notify me prior to the exam. At my discretion, the student will be 
given a multiple -choice  exam or an essay exam. If a student knows ahead of time that an exam or 
critical class meeting will be missed because of a religious reason, the student should notify me of 
the anticipated absence during the first two weeks of the semester.  
 
Participation  Points  
Each student will complete at least one written exercise and participate in active clas s discussions 
which will constitute the Participation part of your grade.  Participation will be discussed more in 
class. Because of the nature of the topics covered in this class, you will be doing several exercises, 
either individually as Homework or in -class exercises in group settings. You will be analyzing court 
decisions and will be applying relevant law principles found in the textbook. We will then hold 
class discussions on the particular topics. Groups’ participation in the discussion cases being 
analyzed is strongly encouraged and expected. Individual (Homework) exercises must be typed, 
have your name and be turned in on the day they are due. No class exercise will be accepted late 
or by email. To receive credit for (Homework) exercises, your answer s to the questions associated 
with the particular exercise must reflect an understanding of the questions. In fact, questions 
must be included in the exercises. In -class group exercises will be done in class as a group 
assignment. I reserve the right to as sign exercises during any class, even if not indicated in the 
syllabus.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
4 IX. Course Schedule . 
 
Date  Topics to be Discussed in Class  
and other Important Information  
Jan 11 
Week 1   
Class Orientation and Expectations  
 
Jan 1 3: Spring add/drop ends; fee liability/tuition payment deadline.  
Last day to submit Spring residency reclassification applications.   
Jan 18 
Week 2    
Chapters 1, 2  
Jan 25 
Week 3   
     Chapters 2, 3  
Feb 1  
Week 4   
     Chapters 3, 4  
 
     Feb 6: Spring graduation application deadline   
 
Feb 8 
Week 5   
     Chapter 5  
Feb 15 
Week 6   
     Chapter 6, 7  
Feb 2 2 
Week 7   
     Chapter 8, Review for Test  
Mar 1  
Week 8   
     Midterm Exam  
 
     Mar 7: Midterm Exam grading closes  
Mar 8 
Week 9   
     Chapter 9  
Mar 1 5 
Week 10   
     Spring Brea k 
Mar 2 2 
Week 11   
     Chapter 10  
     Mar 2 5: Last day to withdraw with no refund and no academic penalty.  
  
 
5 Mar 29 
Week 12   
     Chapter 11  
April 5 
Week 13   
     Chapters 12, 13  
April 12 
Week 14   
     Chapters 13, 14  
April 19 
Week 15   
     Chapter 15  
April 2 6 
Week 16   
     Chapter 16, Review for Final  
May 3  
     Final Exam  
     May 4: End of Spring term  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision .  
 
 
 
X. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to 
review these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
 
XI. Course Policies:  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of 
the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. 
The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate 
students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in 
residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may 
not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be 
changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s 
final examination policy . 
 
XII. Course Policies : Technology and Media   
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being  
 
6 offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may 
also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Recordings : In this class, software  may  be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a 
student in  this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings 
will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot at tend the 
live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was 
presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will be allowed to disable their video 
camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss th is option with your instructor.  
 
XIII. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in per son, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Professionalism Policy:   
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the 
classroom/lab immedi ately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on 
time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, 
etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by e mail when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face en vironment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with differe nt linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and t houghtful. Avoid the  
 
7 use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message o n focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XIV. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promote s university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of S tudent Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canv as course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advo cacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Coun seling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.   
 
8 Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an  appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XV. 2023 Spring COVID -19 Protocols  
For the most recent communication regarding COVID -19 protocols, please visit: 
https://www.usf.edu/coronavirus/   
 
Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the U niversity of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honest y is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF Reg ulation 
3.027.   
 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic g rievance” is a claim that a specific 
academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated 
published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from 
that used for other studen ts. 
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibility Services (SAS) 
(SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to notify 
instructors of accommodation needs at lea st five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit the Student 
Accessibility Services website for more information.  
 
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process (USF Regulation 3.025) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, 
or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the  health, safety, or well -being of self 
or other persons.   
 
9  
 
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issue s affecting their performance in 
classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their 
website), or Student Outreach and Support (socat@usf.edu or their website).  
 
Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the 
student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal or 
methodical oral presentation as p art of a university course intended to present information or 
teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class 
lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually o r 
part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic exercises 
involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private 
conversations between students in the class or between a stu dent and the faculty member is 
prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class attendance 
and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty member. Failure to 
adhere to these requirements  may constitute a violation of the USF Student Conduct Code.  
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious 
observances, practices and beliefs (USF Policy 10 -045). The University of South Florida, through its 
faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising USF’s 
constituency. Students are expected to  attend classes and take examinations as determined by the 
university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time 
prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students should review the course requiremen ts 
and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term 
may prevent a student from completing the academic requirements of a specific course. Students 
are expected to notify their instructors at the beginning of each academic term if they intend to be 
absent for a class or announced examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassme nt and sexual violence (USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence.  This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy: 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX a nd under the USF Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an educator, he 
or she is re quired to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about Title IX, a full list of 
resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or 
stalking visit: usf.edu/title -ix  
  
 
10  
 
Statement of Academic Con tinuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or a n alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages 
for important general information (USF Policy  6-010).  
 
XVI. Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 