1  
 
 
 
ISM 6940 :  
Practicum : Information Assurance  and Cybersecurity Management  
Section 301, Credit Hours : 3 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Summer  2023 
Class Meeting Days: N/A 
Class Meeting Time: N/A 
Class Meeting Location: N/A 
Instructor:  Dr. Varol Kayhan  
Office Location:  LPH 428  (St. Pete campus)  
Office Hours:  N/A 
Email:  vkayhan@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Course Schedule  
 
Weeks  Due Date  Assignment  
Week 1  5/18/2023  First day attendance requirement  
5/21/2023  Week 1 - Progress report  
Week 2  5/28/2023  Week 2 - Progress report  
Week 3  6/4/2023  Week 3 - Progress report  
Week 4  6/11/2023  Week 4 - Progress report  
Week 5  6/18/2023  Week 5 - Progress report  
Week 6  6/25/2023  Week 6 - Progress report  
Week 7  7/2/2023  Week 7 - Early draft submission  
Week 8  7/9/2023  Week 8 - Final deliverable submission  
* Note: Schedule can be revised upon unforeseen circumstances  
 
II. University Course Description  
The M.S. in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Management program requires each student 
to complete three semester credit hours of “experiential learning” or practicum that allows 
students to apply knowledge from their program and critically consider/address issues relevant to 
the cybersecurity field.  Students produce and submit a tangible outcome or artifact to document 
their experience. This can be in the form of an internship report, an essay, an assessment report, 
an app, or any other con crete outcome.  
 
 
 
2 III. Course Prerequisites  
Students must be enrolled in the M.S. in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Management 
program through. Students must have an approved Practicum Learning Plan (PLP) on file and have 
been issued a registration permi t through the Muma College of Business.  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
The goal of this course is to allow students to apply knowledge from their program and critically 
consider/address issues relevant to the cybersecurity field. Practicum assignments and 
experiences vary substantially among students enrolled in this class.  The specific objectives and 
goals are identified in each student’s individual PLP previously submitted as a contractual 
prerequisite for this course. The experience needs to be linked to either an organizational issue on 
which student  work s or a research t opic  about which the student write s an essay. Another option 
is that the student develop s something, like an algorithm or app , related to cybersecurity. For 
example, past students have performed cybersecurity assessments for their host organization 
(exampl e of a practical internship) or have written an essay on cybersecurity in autonomous 
vehicles (example of a research essay).  Practicums approved for the Cybersecurity program must 
primarily have an educational focus that distinguishes them from routine em ployment, and they 
cannot be applied retroactively for work already performed.  
 
At the end of the practicum, students must complete and submit the following:  
• Practicum deliverable:  
o This is a tangible outcome or artifact to document the  practicum experience. It 
can be in the form of an internship report, an essay, an assessment report, an app, 
or any other concrete outcome.  
• Comprehensive review exam : 
o This is multiple -choice review exam that is NOT  graded in any formal way . Nor it 
has a cutoff score.  This is intended to serve as a self -assessment exercise.  As the 
student completes the items, they should identify areas they know well and those 
where they feel less confident. They will briefly summarize this assessment in a 
reflective writ ing exercise in their e -Portfolio.  
• e-Portfolio:  
o An e -Portfolio is a Canvas hosted website that substitute s for the written 
comprehensive exam —mandated by the graduate catalog for graduation. 
Guidelines are provided to help students complete the e -Portfolio  requirement. It 
should require about three hours to complete.  
 
V. Student Learning Outcomes  
While specific objectives and goals are noted in each student’s individual PLP previously submitted 
as a contractual prerequisite for this course, the overarching student learning outcomes for this 
course are as follows.  
 
Upon completion of this course students will be able to:  
• Apply classroom knowledge to critically consider and address issues relevant to the field,  
• Provide discipline appropriate evide nce of their learning in the course via tangible outcome or 
artifact that documents their experience.  
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
There are no required textbooks.   
 
3  
VII. How to Succeed in this Course  
To succeed in this course, students should start working on the components of the agreed upon 
PLP immediately. Because this is an 8 -week course, time will fly. If you procrastinate, you won’t be 
able to complete the requirements of this course, and thus not be able to graduate.  
 
VIII. Com munication  
Email is the preferred communication. You can send an email either through Canvas or directly at 
vkayhan@usf.edu.  
 
IX. Grading Scale  
Final grades are issued as either “Satisfactory” or “Unsatisfactory”, also known as Pass/Fail.  
 
If students receive  “Unsatisfactory,” they start the entire process again, beginning with 
resubmitting another PLP and retaking the course.  
 
X. Grade Categories and Weights  
Grade is based on the satisfactory completion of : 
• the tangible outcome or artifact (i.e., deliverable) to document the practicum experience , 
• the (ungraded) comprehensive review exam,  
• e-Portfolio.   
 
XI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to 
review these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XII. Course Policies: Grades  
 
Late Work Policy : 
Late work will n ot be accepted unless there is a documentable excuse such as a doctor’s note.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when 
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade 
Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters 
for undergraduate courses and  one semester  for graduate courses  from the original date 
grades were due for that course.  An "I" grade not cleared within the  two semesters for 
under graduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (includ ing summer semester) 
will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy :  
 
4 If the final report does not meet the requirements of the PLP, the instructor might ask the 
student to rewrite/redo final deliverable outlined in the PLP. Failing to rew rite/redo this 
deliverable will result in an “Unsatisfactory” grade.  
 
Group Work Policy : 
There is no group work. The final deliverable must be produced individually.  
 
XIII. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese website s (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a viol ation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors 
may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment  with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a r eport from turnitin.com that states if and 
how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this 
process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are du e at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Documenting your Sources:  
Give credit to every one of your sources, even if you change information into your own words. 
When you use a writer's exact wording, put quotation marks around those words and use a 
citation.  
 
Plagiarism includes writing facts, opinions, or quotations you get from someone else or from 
books, magazines, newspapers, journals, movies, television, tapes, or the web as if they were 
your own and without identifying the source. Remember it is your responsibility to cite all 
sources properly. Unintentional plagiarism still is plagiarism.  
 
Document all sources using the citation style of either the American Psychological Association 
(APA) or Modern Languages Association (MLA).  
 
You must acknowledge the source of any:  
• statistic  
• paraphrase  
• concrete fact  
• direct quotation  
• idea other than your own  
• opinion held by someone else  
• information not commonly known  
 
If a fact is common knowledge, don't show a source. For instance, no citation is neede d for the 
following sentence: John Adams was the second president.   
 
5  
Punishment for academic dishonesty will depend on the seriousness of the offense and may 
include receipt of an "F" with a numerical value of zero on the item submitted, and the "F" shall 
be used to determine the final course grade. It is the option of the instructor to assign the 
student a grade of F or FF (the latter indicating academic dishonesty) in the course.  
 
References and sources:  
All references and sources used in this course must be academically sound.  You may use 
scholarly journals or refereed articles as academic sources.  
 
You may not use "pop culture" resources such as  People  or Psychology Today . 
 
You may not  use “entertainment news” sources such as TMZ or eonline.com.  
 
You may not  use "wikis" or various search engines "about" sources such as Wikipedia, 
eHow.com, Ask.com, About.com, WikiAnswers.com, Answers.com, Answers.Yahoo.com, 
Answers.google.com, Sociology.abo ut.com, Psychology.about.com, CliffNotes.org, etc.  
 
You may not  use online dictionaries such as dictionary.com, reference.com, AskJeeves.com, 
Ask.com, thefreedictionary.com, etc . (too many to list).  
 
The reason is that “wikis” and “abouts” are “open” sourc e encyclopedias – meaning that anyone 
can post to them. Th erefore,  you cannot with any degree of accuracy be certain that the 
information you are citing is correct. They are unreliable as academic sources.  
 
You must meet the five (5) minimum criteria for q uoting and citing sources:  
1. Ensure that if a source is listed in the “References” section , it must appear in  the body of the 
paper at the point where it was cited or used as a reference, each and every time it is used.  
2. Ensure that if a source is cited or used as a reference in the body of the paper, it must be 
listed in the References.  
3. All references/sources lis ted in the “References” section  and cited in the body should be in 
the same standardized format. (e.g., APA).  
4. All directly quoted (word -for-word) materials must be contained within quotation marks 
followed by an in -text citation and a corresponding referen ce. 
5. All paraphrased materials must be followed by an in -text citation and a corresponding 
reference.  
XIV. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studi o, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are   
 
6 recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
 
 