  
 
 
 
 
 
Instructor:  Giti Javidi  
Office Location:  C217  
Office Hours:  Tue 2:00 -300p  (via MS Teams)  
Phone Number:  941-359-4257  
Email:  javidi@usf.edu  Semester:  Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days:  Asynchronous  
Class Meeting Time:  Asynchronous  
Class Meeting Location:  Canvas  
 
 
 
IMPORTANT DATES:  
 
January 9  Classes  begin  
January 13  Drop/add  ends;  fee liability/tuition  payment  deadline   
January 16  Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday ; no classes  and USF offices closed  
February 6  Spring graduation application due  
February 20   Midterm grading opens   
March 7  Midterm grading closes  
March 13  Spring Final grading opens  
March 13 -19 SPRING BREAK  
March 25  Spring last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty  
March 2 7 Summer/Fall  registration begins  
April 22 -28 Test Free Week  
April  28 Spring  last day of classes  
Apr. 29-May 4 Final Exam Week  
May 9   Final  grading closes   
May 12   Final grades visible on OASIS  
 
 
COURSE PREREQUISITES: ISM4641 and J unior or Senior standing  
 
CATALOG DESCRIPTION:  
Exploration of cyber intelligence key concepts, tools and terminologies used by professionals in the field. 
Investigation of practical applications of cyber threat intelligence tools and models in real -world events.   
 
COURSE OBJECTIVE : The objective of this course is to introduce students to cyber threat intelligence key 
concepts, tools and terminologies used by professionals in the field. Real world case studies provide a vehicle 
for students to understand intelligence indicators and learn tools and techniques to dete ct potential attacks in 
order to protect organizational systems. This course gives students the cybersecurity intelligence  skills needed 
as part of the Cybersecurity Security Analyst Professional Certificate program.  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:   
 MindTap for Ciampa's CompTIA CySA+ Guide to Cybersecurity Analyst (CS0 -002) 2nd edition, 1 term 
Printed Access Card , ISBN 9780357678008  
 
ISM 4321  
Cybersecurity Threat Intelligence  
School of Information Systems and Management 
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity 
Management Program  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 12/5/2022   SUPPLEMENTAL READINGS:   
 Roberts. (2021). Cyber threat intelligence: the no -nonsense guide for CISOs and security managers (1st 
ed. 2021.). Apress. https://doi.org/10.1007/978 -1-4842 -7220 -6 (available at USF Library)  
 Friedman, J., & Bouchard, M. (2015). Definitive Guide to Cyber Threat Intelligence: Using Knowledge 
about Adversaries to Win the War against Targeted Attacks [EBook]. Cyberedge Press. ( Free to 
download).    
 Practical Cyber Intelligence: How action -based intelligence can be an e ffective response to incidents,  
Wilson Bautista Jr, March 29, 2018,  ISBN -10: 9781788625562, ISBN -13: 978-1788625562  (available 
at the USF library)  
 The Cyber Intelligence Handbook: An Authoritative Guide for the C -Suite, IT Staff, and Intelligence 
Team , David M. Cooney Jr., 2019, ISBN -10: 1082404381, ISBN -13: 978-1082404382  (available at the 
USF library)  
 
COURSE TOPICS:  This course will cover the following content areas:  
• Threat data and intelligence  
• Threat actors  and types  
• Integrating Threat Intelligence and Operations  
• Digital forensics  
• Incident response  
• Vulnerability Management  
• Scanning for Vulnerabilities  
• Threat hunting  
• Software and hardware security  
• Data protection and privacy  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: Upon completion o f this course, students will be able to:  
1. Identify  different  types  of common  cyber  threats  and vulnerabilities  
2. Explain  security  threats  associated  with embedded  and specialized  devices  
3. Identify  different  attacks  and threat  actors  
4. Define  threat  modelling  strategies  and framework  
5. Examine the tools and techniques for collecting cyber threat intelligence  
6. Utilize  tools  to assess  vulnerabilities  
7. Utilize  tools  for collecting  threat Data and intelligence  
8. Apply  best practices  for software  and hardware  security   
9. Utilize  tool for infrastructure  controls   
10. Explain  threat  hunting  tactics  
11. Apply  appropriate  incident  response  procedures  
12. Apply  specialized  digital  forensic  techniques  for targeting  adversaries  
13. Utilize  threat  intelligence  to support  organizational  security  
14. Run and analyze vulnerability scans  
15. Monitor endpoints, networks, and email  
16. Conduct data analysis for privacy and security  
17. Apply security techniques  to mitigate risks  
 
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
• Canvas: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help  learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following v ideos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact 
USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . The course will include recorded lectures, 
reading assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, dis cussions and homework (posted on 
CANVAS).  
•    Recorded videos and instructor notes : Course participants are not are not permitted to sell notes or 
video recording of class lectures.  
  COURSE STRUCTURE:  
To assist you in your efforts to master the knowledge and competencies necessary to be successful, this course 
is structured according to the following:  
• All course material, including recorded lectures, exams, quizzes, assignments, discussions, and lab 
exercises will be available on Canvas. There will be 16 Modules on Canvas, each representing a week. 
Each module will include the learning objectives of the week, checklist for the tasks to be completed 
within that week, and all teachi ng material  and all the deliverables (i.e. quiz, assignment, discussion 
question, etc.)  for that week.  
• There will be weekly discussion, total of 12 discussions.  
• There will be 13 quizzes based on weekly readings to insure mastery of the topics.  
• There will be 2 assignments in this course . For these assignments, you will be required to analyze and 
provide solutions to scenario -based cases.  
• There will be two exams; midterm (Week 8) and final exam (Week 16).  
• There will be  weekly critical thinking and lab exerc ises. These exercises are meant to be used to 
provide hands -on exercises.  
• Please remember that our week starts on Sunday  and ends on Sunday. The assigned tasks  are always 
due on the 11: 59p of the Sunday of that week. Always go through the checklist for each week to see if 
there is anything due on the Sunday of that week. You can also use the course calendar as a checklist.  
• There will be weekly reading assignments.  The assigned readings for each week are available for each 
weekly module.  
 
GRADING POLICIES  
• Late Work Policy : All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. of the due 
date. Late assignments will be graded with penalty unless prior permission has been granted by your 
instructor . There are no make -ups for in-class discussions. Assignments turned in late will be assessed 
with penalty of 5 points for each day late. Assignments will not be accepted if overdue by more than 
five days.  
• Extra Credit Policy : An assignment or two, or other activities may have an ext ra credit component 
associated with them. Points earned in this manner will not be included in the assignment or exam grade 
or in the final course average. These will be considered after course letter grades have been tentatively 
assigned. Extra credit may  result in an increase in your final letter grade, especially in borderline 
situations, and will never reduce your grade. For this reason, you should take full advantage of extra 
credit opportunities.  
• Incomplete Policy : An “I” grade may be awarded to a stu dent only when a small portion of the 
student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time 
limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this 
time limit  may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or 
graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic 
semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit w ill be changed to “IF” or “IU,” 
whichever is appropriate.  
• Make -up Exams Policy : A make -up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor 
in advance that s/he cannot take the exam on the assigned date.  
• Final Examinations Policy : The final exam will be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final 
examination policy.  
 
GRADING SCALE  
USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s 
drop/withdraw date (please refer to importan t dates on page 1 of this syllabus). Student performance for this 
course will be evaluated based on quizzes, exams , assignments, quizzes , lab exercises, and discussion 
participation , as detailed below. Below is a summary for the determination of the final grade and an 
explanation for each component:  
 
Deliverables   Percentage of Grade   Quizzes  (12) 10% 
Exam s (2) 30% 
Lab Exercises/Assignments  30% 
Assignments (2)  20% 
Class Participation /Discussion  10% 
Total  100%  
A+ = 97 -100; A=94 -96; A - =90-93; B+ = 87 -89; B=84 -86; B - = 80-83;  
C+=77 -79; C = 74 -76; C - + 70-73; D = 60 - 69; F = 59 or below  
   
 
 
 
 
COURSE EXPECTATIONS  
• Attendance Policy : There is no live lecture attendance requirement. Everything will be placed on 
Canvas. 
• Course Hero/Chegg Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downl oading material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
• End of Semester Student Evalua tions:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for students 
to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the 
end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response w indow opens. 
Your participation is expected and valued.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, 
as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you 
will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another 
author’s work was use d in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .  
• Syllabus Terms:  All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  
terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in 
the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may elect  to drop or withdraw  
from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
• Honorlock  for the Exams:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  
Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  
taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recordin g device  is purchased  and 
controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  with the 
permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.  To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  
should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an 
appropriate  space  for the recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any 
recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability for 
violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they 
take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be 
provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required  to download  and 
install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF  
online  proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resou rces.  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of 
policies t hat apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core - syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
WEB PORTAL INFORMATION  
Every newl y enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail account.  Students receive official USF 
correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu . 
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for tempor ary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to 
contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or 
regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services 
(http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic -resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which 
are provided at no cost to students.  
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can 
help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, 
practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access 
these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www .usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa 
Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and 
graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work 
individually with you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming t o 
editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or 
to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center: The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the camp us 
community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, 
and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact 
information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resource s. 
Contact information is available online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center: The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and 
writing consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center: The Wellness Cente r provides counseling and medical services, 
as well as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is 
available online .  
Sarasota -
Manat ee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring 
and writing consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, 
Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish. Make an 
appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and 
harassment, including sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599.  For assistance leave a message with your phone number and your call will be 
returned as soon as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of 
crime, sexual assault, and partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with me? You can eith er (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) call/text 
me or (iii) set up an appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please 
write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email.  The emails should be composed 
professionally and the language should be courteous and respectful.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All delivera bles must be submitted through 
Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, unless 
your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email 
address in  the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous text from that email, 
if your email pertains to something else.  
 
How will I communicate with you? I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should 
arrive in your  inbox. If you send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send 
me an email directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to reply to your 
emails within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot gua rantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Spam Mail folder so if you have not received my response within 24 
hours, please either resend your email or call my office phone number and leave a message in case I am  not in 
my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments through Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and announcements. 
I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   It is a lot of trouble  to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I had a reason 
for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and expectations and have your 
questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a more productive semester. Please 
read every word  in this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me any questions.  
• Complete the reading as signments:   You will get a lot more out of this class if you complete the assigned 
readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never complete it or try to cram 
it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the t ime, unsatisfactory grades are due to 
procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete the assigned 
readings for this class.  
• Watch the recorded lectures/external videos:  Some modules will include recorded lectures  and LinkedIn 
Learn videos. The lectures that are prepared by me contain topics that I think are the most important in the 
course. Please watch them.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing assignments /labs :  You cannot pass the course without doing at least 
most of the assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you get behind, you will 
find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Complete the quizzes:  Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage you to 
complete them by the  due dates.  
• The bottom line “Do not procrastinate. ” 
 
 
 