 1  
ISM 3232 – 001 
Business Application Development  
 
Spring  2023 – 3 Credits  
Tuesday, Thursday  3:30pm-4:45pm 
CIS 1035 
 
INSTRUCTOR : Dr. He Zhang  Email:  hezhang @usf.edu  
 Office:  CIS 2067   
 Web Page: https:// my.usf.edu  ( USF Canvas  System)  
 
 Office Hours:  Monday : 2:00pm -5:00pm  
Office hours will be offered in both face -to-face and online.                   
Students can join office hours via Microsoft Team. You can 
contact the GA whenever you have some question.  
 
TA: Alexandra Harde  Email:  hardea@usf.edu  
 Office Hours:  TA office hours will be announced soon.  
 You can contact the GA whenever you have some question.  
 
TEXTBOOK : Required:  Starting Out with Visual C#, 5th ed., by Tony Gaddis.  
  Published by Pearson  (2019). 
 
 Additional materials will be made available via the USF Canvas  system.  
 
DESCRIPTION : “This course introduces business application development using an object -
oriented programming language.  Topics include data types, programming 
constructs, object construction, debugging techniques, and graphical user 
interfaces.  Good program design techniques are emphasized.  Applications of 
increasing complexity are developed.”  
 (From the MIS Program of Study .) 
 
PREREQUISITE : ISM 3011 Information Systems in Organ izations (with a grade of “C” or better).  
 (This prerequisite may be taken during the same term as this class.)  
 
OBJECTIVES : This course is designed for undergraduate students  majoring or minoring in 
business analytics and information systems, as well as t hose students using this 
discipline as a concentration in a general business degree program.  In this course, 
students will learn  the design and development of computer software written in 
the C# programming language.  In addition to C# -specific skills, th e content of 
the course has been selected so that students will acquire knowledge and 
analytical skills common to object -oriented software development in general.  
 
OUTCOMES : Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
• understand and prope rly utilize the Visual Studio development environment  
• describe  the fundamental  concepts, terminology,  and syntax of the C# language  
• explain the proper implementation of g raphical user interface concepts  
• design  programs  that appropriately  utilize  object -oriented  programming  concepts   2 • select and apply proper programming control structures in program development  
• employ effective exception handling techniques in the design of C# programs  
• analyze business situations to identify opportuniti es for the application of the  
   programming concepts introduced in this course  
 
REQUIREMENTS : Midterm Examination   20% 
Final Examination   20% 
Individual Assignments (4)  30% 
Lab (7)    10% 
 Quiz     20% 
• Quizzes : Starting from the second week, there will be a quiz in each week, except exam days. 
All quizzes are based on the material I teach in class. Each quiz lasts about 60 minutes and is 
worth 20 points. Your score on quizzes is the average of all except the lowest two quizzes, 
provided you miss less than or equal to 2 quizzes. However, if you miss more than 2 quizzes, 
your score on quizzes will be 60% of the scores computed  in accordance with the above 
method. And if you miss more than 3 quizzes, your score on quiz will be 40% of the score 
computed in accordance with the above method.  No make -up quiz for whatever reasons. In 
this semester, quizzes will be open on every Thur sday after class until 12pm next Friday. You 
have 60 minutes to finish the quiz.  
 
• Assignment s: There will be 4 assignments, which are also based on the materials  I teach in 
class. Cooperation among students  is prohibited and would be deemed as v iolation of  
academic integrity.  
• Labs: There will be 7 labs. Time will be reserved in certain lectures for the labs . The 
due date of the lab will be next day of the class.  
• Online  Exams : There will be 2 open -book online exams, each exam will be open for 3 -4 days . 
 
 
GRADING : A+ - 98-100 C+ - 78-79 
 A - 92-97 C - 70-77 
 A– - 90-91 C– - 68-69 
 B+ - 88-89 D+ - 66-67 
 B - 82-87 D - 60-65 
 B– - 80-81 D– - 58-59 
    F - 0-57 
 
POLICIES :  Regular class attendance is very important to achieving success in this course.   
Mater ial not included in the text will be introduced in some classes.  Should you 
need to miss a class, you should inform your instructor as soon as possible in 
order to find out how best to catch up.  
 
   Class meetings for both examinations must  be attended .  Only emergency  
situations will qualify as excused absences for these classes.  Should such a 
situation occur, you must notify your instructor immediately .  Acceptable 
documentation of the emergency will be required.  
 
   The use of computers  during class lectures is strictly restricted to class -related use 
only (such as program coding, note-taking , or viewing class slides).  
 
   *** Cell phone  use of any kind during class lectures is prohibited .  During class, 
all cell phones must be turned off and placed out of sight.  *** 
 See the last page  of this syllabus for the  relevant 
dates and descriptions of these course requirement s.  3    All unauthorized recordings of class are prohibited.  Recordings that accommo -
date individual student needs must be approved by your instructor in advance.  
 
   Academic integrity is an absolute course requirement . (See link to USF Academic 
Integrity policy below.)  Any instance of academic dishonesty will result, at the 
least, in a grade of zero being assigned to the work involved.  This policy covers 
both the Exams and the Individual Assignments. It is considered  cheating to either 
give or receive  assistance of any kind on these assignments.  It is your respons ibil-
ity to ensure that your work does not become available to other students.  
 
USF STANDARD COURSE POLICIES  
 
In addition to the specific course policies li sted above, information on the following university standard 
course policies can be found at the web address shown for each item:  
 
Final Examinations – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf  
General Attendance – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralA ttendance.pdf  
Religious Days – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf  
Academic Integrity – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf  
Academic Disruption – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
Academic Grievance – http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
Students with Disabilities – 
http://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/documents/ sds-staff-handbook.pdf  
 
 
PREPARATION : Assigned textbook chapters should be read and assigned problems completed in 
advance of the class in which they will be discussed.  This allows class time to be 
used efficiently and additional topics of interest to be discussed.  
 
   A significant  amount of work outside of class will be needed for students to 
adequately master the material necessary to complete the four Individual 
Assignments.  You should plan such time into your regular weekly schedule.  
 
   The instructor is readily available outside of class during office hours and via 
email, if you have questions or need additional assistance.  You are strongly 
encouraged to make use of this help.   
 
Campus Free Expression:   It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support 
an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly 
exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course 
may involve discussio n of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or 
even offensive.  
 
   In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective 
manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. 
Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review 
and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
   Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you 
may decide that certain ideas are wor thy of your personal belief. In this course, 
however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an 
understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are 
required to believe it or agree with it.   4  
Class Recording  Classes will be recorded and streamed online. Student’s voice and video will be 
included in the class recording. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the 
privacy of their surroundings and background is maintained.  
 
 
CLASS MEETING SCHEDULE  
 
Week  Date  Topic  
 
1 01/10 - Introduction to Course  
   Chapter 1 – Introduction to Computers and Programming  
  - C# LAB 0  
 
2 01/17 - Chapter 2 – Introduction to Visual C#  
  - C# LAB I  
 
3 01/24 - Chapter 3 – Processing Data  
  - Chapter 3 – Processing Data  
 
4 01/31 - Chapter 3 – Processing Data  
  - C# LAB II  
 
5 02/07 - Chapter 4 – Making Decisions  
  - Chapter 4 – Making Decisions  
 
6 02/14 - Chapter 4 – Making Decisions  
  - C# LAB III  
 
7 02/21 - Chapter 5 – Loops, Files, and Random Numbers  
  - Chapter 5 – Loops, Files, and Random Numbers  
 
8 02/28 - Midterm Review  
  - Midterm Examination  (the exam will be open for several days)  
 
9  03/07 - Chapter 6 – Modularizing Your Code with Methods  
  - Chapter 6 – Modularizing Your Code with Methods  
 
10  03/14  - Spring Break  
 
11 03/21 - Chapter 6 – Modularizing Your Code with Methods  
  - C# LAB IV  
 
11  03/28 - Chapter 7 – Arrays and Lists  
  - Chapter 7 – Arrays and Lists  
 
12  04/04 - Chapter 7 – Arrays and Lists  
  - Chapter 7 – Arrays and Lists  
 
13 04/11 - Chapter 10 – Introduction to Classes  
  - C# LAB V  
 
14 04/18 - Chapter 10 – Introduction to Classes  
  - Chapter 8 – Text Processing  
 
15 04/25 - Chapter 9 – Structures, Enumerated Types, and Dictionaries  
  - C# LAB VI  
  5  
16 05/02 - Final Examination   (the exam will be open for several days ) 
 
NOTE:    The withdrawal deadline for this semester is Saturday, October  29th. 
 
 
SCHEDULE FOR ASSIGNMENTS / EXAMS  
 
All due dates are absolute deadlines – no late work will be accepted.  
 
(Assigned work is due by the date and time  indicated on the assignment handout.)  
 
 
Assignment #1  
 
Given out:  Week 4 01/30 
Due:  Week 5 02/08 
 
Assignment #2  
 
Given out:  Week 6 02/13 
Due:  Week 7 02/22 
 
Midterm Exam  
 
Date:  Week 8   
 
Assignment #3  
 
Given out:  Week 1 2 03/27 
Due:  Week 1 3 04/05 
 
Assignment #4  
 
Given out:  Week 1 5 04/17 
Due:  Week 1 6 04/26 
 
Final Exam  
 
Date:  Week 1 7  
 
 
 
Communications to you from your instructor via Canvas and in class meetings  
during the semester may supersede information contained in this syllabus.  
 
 Assignment #1 will involve the creation of a GUI 
application demonstrating concepts presented 
through Chapter 3 of the course textbook.  
Assignment #2 will involve the creation of a GUI 
application demonstrating concepts presented 
through Chapter 4 of the course textbook.  
The Midterm Exam will include questions (in a 
variety of formats) from all course materials cov -
ered to this point of the semester.  
Assignment #3 will involve the creation of a GUI 
application demonstrating con cepts presented 
through Chapter 6  of the course textbook.  
Assignment #4 will involve the creation of a GUI 
application demonstrating concepts presented 
through Chapter 10 of the course textbook.  
The Final Exam will include questions (in a vari -
ety of formats) primarily from materials cov ered 
after the Midterm Exam to the end of the semester.  