  
QMB -3200  
Business & Economic Statistics II  – Summer 20 23 
  
Instructor:          Kim Johnson , Ph.D.   
E-mail:               kimj@usf.edu  
Office:               CIS 20 54B  
Office Hours :    By appointment  in person and via Teams  
                           
 
 
PREREQUISITES: MAC 2233 / MAC 2241, QMB 2100.  
STA 2023 can serve as equivalent to QMB 2100.  
Students should have earned a “C” grade or better (and not C -) in QMB 2100 or STA 2023.  
 
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION:  This is a Core course for all Business Majors.  
 
Catalog Description of the course:  Simple linear regression and correlation, multiple regression and model 
building, forecasting models, analysis of variance, chi -square tests, nonparametric methods.  
 
Purpos e of the course:  QMB 3200 is the second course in Statistics. It builds upon the foundation established in 
your first course in Statistics (QMB 2100 or its equivalent). The purpose of QMB 3200 is to prepare students to 
appreciate the role statistics plays in business analytics and decision making. In particular, the course emphasizes 
and prepares students to “learn”, “interpret”, and “be ready to apply” the concepts and methods, rather than learn 
calculations alone.  
 
 
COURSE OBJECTIVES:   Through this course , students would develop a working knowledge and expertise on 
how to apply statistical methods on business problems. In particular, students will be able to:  
1. Strengthen fundamentals, formulate hypothesis from the problem statement, and learn to perform ana lyses,  
2. Interpret statistical results generated from a selected software program and communicate the findings in simple 
terms to the decision -maker.  
3. Identify opportunities for and learn to apply statistical tests on Categorical data such as  contingency a nalysis and 
goodness of fit tests  
4. Explain the basis and apply Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) techniques on data from experiments/observational 
studies in business  
5. Identify application opportunities and learn to perform simple linear and multiple regression a nalyses, extract 
valuable information, and apply the results for predictions and improved business decision -making  
6. Analyze Time -series patterns and learn to apply forecasting methods for various business applications  
 
 
 
COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES :  At the conclusion of the course students should be able to:  
1. Develop  a hypothesis from a problem statement, choose an appropriate statistical technique to apply given the 
problem context, perform the analysis; and most importantly, interpret the reports/results, and develop well -
reasoned and evidence -based conclusions  
2. Learn to perform hypotheses tests on categorical data using Chi -Square goodness of fit tests and tests of 
independence  Understand the principles of designed experimentation, identify an appropriate experimental design 
to perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) on d ata from experimental/observational studies; develop hypothesis 
statements, perform the analysis, understand, and interpret ANOVA output from a select software; and develop 
conclusions  
3. Develop both simple and multiple regression models from given data, und erstand and interpret regression analysis 
output from a select software package, test hypotheses and infer relationships between variables, and make 
predictions on response.  
4. Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series data, select appropriate fore casting techniques given the 
pattern, develop forecasts and forecast accuracy measures to identify the best forecasting method  
 
 
 
TOPICS TO BE COVERED:  
• Review of Concepts and Topics (Probability Distributions, Estimation, and Hypothesis Testing) from 
QMB 2100 that are important for QMB 3200  
• Categorical Data Analysis – Chi-square Tests  
• Analysis of Variance  
• Simple Linear Regression  
• Multiple Regression  
• Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
 
 
 
MATERIALS  
(Required) Statistics for Business & Economics  (13th or 14th edition ), Pearson Education, McClave, Benson, 
and Sincich. Copies of this text are available for purchase at the USF Bookstore  and other  retailers. Both a hard 
copy and an electronic version are available.   
 
(Required) STATISTIX 10.0  This software can be purchased for Windows only. It is  also available for free 
using the apps.usf.edu gateway (Mac or Windows) . It is highly recommended  that you purchase and install 
this software on your laptop or one that is available to you. Application Gateway can be problematic, and 
students are responsible for having reliable access to the STATISTIX program. Issues relating to the 
Application Gatewa y should be directed to USF Information Technology ( https://www.usf.edu/it/ ), NOT THE 
INSTRUCTOR OR THE TAs.  
 
(Recommended) Pro-Copy Packet  A spiral -bound course packet is available  for purchase from Pro -Copy 
located at 5219 E. Fowler Avenue, Tampa, FL 33617. This packet includes course notes, practice exam  questions , 
and more. Historically, students have found the Pro -Copy packet extremely useful.  
  
(Required) Student Data Set  – each student is required to collect and enter into an Excel spreadsheet or directly 
into Statistix 10 a data set consisting of 75 used automobiles, 25  each from three different models of vehicles of 
your choice (for example, Toyota Camry, Honda Accord, and N issan Altima). For each vehicle, you will enter 
the asking price, the number of miles, whether it was made in the year 2015 or earlier (enter as 0) or 2016 or later 
(enter as 1), and the vehicle model (label as 1, 2, or 3). When entering the asking price a nd mileage, please use 
numbers only without dollar signs or commas. Information regarding the requirements for the Student Data Set 
will be posted to the Resources module in Canvas. You will receive more instruction regarding this data set during 
the first  week of class and will begin collecting your data then; you do not need to have this data already collected 
at the start of class.  
  
COURSE POLICIES   
 
Format  
This course will be conducted entirely online in an asynchronous manner. Weekly Modules will be published , 
and you will be responsible for completing that week’s assignments by Saturday  at 11:59pm at the end of each 
week . You will watch two recorded lectures and then complete a short test and a n assignment.  
 
All of the week’s lectures and assignment s will be posted to Canvas by the end of the day on the Saturday 
preceding that week, giving you through the following Saturday to watch the lectures and complete the work. 
Occasionally the material may be posted in advance and you will be  able to work ahe ad, but keep in mind that 
this is not a “work at your own pace” course . You will need to be able to be “present” for the entire 6 weeks.  
 
You should begin every week by reading the Weekly Overview. This will inform you of the material we will 
cover that w eek; the assignments you will need to complete;  as well as any pertinent information regarding Stat 
Lab, Teams availability, and other information I may need to convey to you. Always read the Weekly Overview . 
 
Attendance   
No attendance will be taken othe r than the First Day Attendance. This will take place in the form of a Syllabus 
Quiz (for no grade) that will be present in Module 1. Students who do not complete this quiz by the  first day of 
class  will be dropped from the course.  
 
Document Signatures  
If you at any time during the semester require the instructor’s signature on a document , you will need to  submit 
the document  virtually via DocuSign (look under the Business Systems tab on the MyUSF homepage)  
 
Communication  
I will communicate w ith you via Canvas  messaging and announcement s. It is important that you check Canvas 
on at least a daily basis. If you don’t read the announcements, you will very likely mis s important 
information!  
 
When you have a question, please first refer to the syll abus, the Weekly Overview, and recent announcements . If 
your question is still unanswered, message me through Canvas and I will respond as quickly as possible.  
 
Office Hours  
I am available to meet with students in person in my office on campus  by appointm ent. In addition , I will host a 
weekly Teams discussion open to all students. Teams availability for that week will be posted in the Weekly 
Overview.  
 
Late Work  
Late assignments will not be accepted and tests  cannot be made up . This class moves at a fast pace and it’s 
important that you not fall behind. You have a full week to complete the work for each module; don’t wait until 
the last minute.  
 Cheating  The policy for this course for students caught cheating is as follows: At minimum, the student will 
receive a 0 on the relevant assignment  and be prevented from dropping the course. At maximum, the 
student will receive an FF course grade and the case will  be turned over to USF for further action. (See 
USF Regulation -3.026, Academic Integrity of Students  and last page of syllabus). Falsifying documents (e.g., 
excuse letters, doctor’s notes, etc.) will be treated as cheating. Assisting another student with q uizzes or exams or 
sharing your work with other students for them to submit as their own constitutes cheating. THERE ARE NO 
EXCEPTIONS TO THIS POLICY!  
 
Extra Credit  and Grade Adjustment  
 
I do not offer extra credit, but I do allow you to drop your lowest test grade and your lowest assignment grade 
(assuming you complete all work). There will be no curving of grades , however, if the final course average is 
below 75%, points will be added to  each student’s score until the course average is 75%.  Lastly, I round final 
course grades up  or down  to the nearest whole number  (89.4 becomes 89; 89.5 becomes 90) .  
 
STAT  LAB  
Stat Lab is a tutoring service offered by the TAs. This is available via Teams . Scheduling and further details 
regarding Stat Lab will be posted under the Resources Module in Canvas. You are highly encouraged to utilize 
this excellent resource! The TAs are highly knowledgeable and are there to help you succeed in this class.  
 
  
ASSIGNMENTS  
 
You are required to complete a weekly test. You will be allowed to drop the lowest  of these test grades, but if you 
miss one you may not make it up  and that will be your dropped grade . You have the entire week to take the test, 
so there is rea lly no reason to miss one. Be sure to add this to your calendar so you don’t forget, and don’t wait 
until the last minute in case something comes up.  You will also complete a weekly homework assignment, some 
of which will be for completion only, and you wi ll be allowed to drop the lowest of these scores. The due dates 
and times of these assignments can be found  in the Course Schedule.  Any changes will be noted in a Canvas 
announcement, so make sure to read the course announcements daily.  
 
 
 
Tests  
You are required to complete five of s ix tests, each worth 30 points  for a total of 150 points . Only the  top 5 of 
your  6 test grades will be  include d in your grade at the end of the semester . Test questions  will usually be 
multiple choice and true/false, b ut other formats may sometimes be included (you will receive advance notice of 
this). Tests MUST be taken by Saturday at 11:59pm.  Tests will be open in Canvas for the entire week and y ou 
may take the quiz at any point during this time.  You are allowed only one attempt for each test and late tests  will 
not be a dministered  under any circumstances .  
  
 
Homework   
You are required to complete five out of six  homework assignments , worth a total of 150 points total. Each 
homework assignment must be typed and submitted  in Canvas as a SINGLE  .doc or .docx  file by the assignment’s 
respective due date. We do not grade submissions consisting of several separate files. Hand -written work will not be accepted.  Some h omework assignments will be submitted via Turnitin to assess for plagiarism.  All homework 
assignments are due  by Saturday at 11:59pm . Late home work assignments will not be accepted.  It is your 
responsibility to make sure you submit your homework on time in the proper format. If you submit the 
incorrect file or submit a document that is unreadable, you will be allowed to resubmit but will be asses sed a 25% 
penalty.  Check the document you are submitting to make sure it is the correct one!  
 
 
Grading  
 
A total of 300 points can be earned in this course ( 150 points for the exam s plus 150 points for homework ). To 
obtain your percentage grade, just divide your total points earned by 300. Grades will be  assigned as follows:  
  
Percentages  Points  Letter  Percentages  Points  Letter  
97.00 -100.0  388-400.00  A+  77.00 -79.99  308-319.99  C+  
93.00 -96.99  372-387.99  A  73.00 -76.99  292-307.99  C  
90.00 -92.99  360-371.99  A-  70.00 -72.99  280-291.99  C-  
87.00 -89.99  348-359.99  B+  67.00 -69.99  268-279.99  D+  
83.00 -86.99  332-347.99  B  60.00 -66.99  240-267.99  D  
80.00 -82.99  320-331.99  B-  00.00 -59.99  000-239.99  F  
  
 
  
 
 
USF GUIDELINES AND POLICIES   
  
University Policy On Academic Dishonesty Each individual is expected to earn his or her degree on the basis 
of personal effort. Consequently, any form of cheating on examinations or plagiarism on assigned papers 
constitutes unacceptable deceit and dishonesty. This cannot be tolerated in the University community and will be 
punishable, according to the seriousness of the offense, in conformity with this rule. More infor mation about the 
policies  regarding academic dishonesty can be obtained  from  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf   
  
Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a 
course -graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the 
paper of another student, no r consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person 
to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing 
visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diag rams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and 
presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other 
examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, sp eeches, etc.; (f) stealing 
or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  
  
 University Statement on Delivery of Instruction in event of Emergency  In the event of an emergency, it may 
be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. D uring this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of 
instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: CANVAS, Elluminate, Skype, and email 
messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor CANVAS site  for each 
class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and 
MoBull messages for important general information.   
  
Final Examinations Policy  All final examinations are to be scheduled in accordance with  the University's final 
examination policy. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf   
  
General Attendance Policy  Information about the general attendance policy at USF may be obtained from the 
following link: http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAtten dance.pdf   
  
Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days  “No student shall be compelled to attend class 
or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. In accordance with the University 
policy on observa nce of religious holy days, students are expected to notify their instructors if they intend to be 
absent for a class or announced examination prior to the scheduled meeting.” Students must provide notice of the 
date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at th e beginning of the term. http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/ReligiousDays.pdf   
 
Disruption of the Academic Process  Information about this policy may be obtained fro m the following link:  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf   
  
Student Academic Grievance Procedures  Information about the policies regarding student academic grievance 
procedures may be obtained from the following link: 
http://www .ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf   
  
Students with Disabilities  Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages s tudents to notify instructors of 
accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must 
accompany this request. Contact SDS at 813 -974-4309 or www.sds.usf.edu   
  
Grades of “incomplete”  The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this 
course. Incomplete grades are given only in extreme situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a student 
from completing the course and the remaining work can be compl eted in the next semester. Your instructor is the 
final authority on whether you qualify for an incomplete. Incomplete work must be finished by the end of the 
subsequent semester. If work is not finished by this deadline university policy is that the “I” a utomatically reverts 
to an “F”.  
  
Sexual misconduct/sexual harassment  USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex 
discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for 
Victim is a conf idential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes 
including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you 
without having to report your situation to eit her the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the 
Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please 
be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of 
sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report i t to OSSR 
or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974 -
5757.   
 
 
 
COURSE SCHEDULE   
  
Week  Dates  Lectures  Chapters  Topics  Due This Week  
 by Saturday at 11:59pm  
1  May 1 5-19 1, 2 1, 2, 3   Syllabus Overview and  
QMB 2100 Review  Syllabus Quiz must be taken on 
Monday, May 1 5th! 
Test 1  
Homework 1  
2  May 2 2-26  3, 4 9  
Hypothesis Testing    
Test 2  
Homework 2  
3  May 19-June 2  5, 6  10     Analysis of Variance   Test 3  
Homework 3  
4  June 5-9  7, 8 11, 12  Regression  Analysis   
Test 4  
                       Homework 4  
 
5  June 1 2-16 9, 10  12 Model Building  Test 5  
Homework 5  
6  June 19-23      11, 12  12  Further Regression Topics 
and 
Time Series Forecasting   Test 6  
Homework 6  
  
This syllabus is subject to change at any time  with notice.  