 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
MAN3301:  Human Resource Management  
School of In formation Sys tems and Management  
Muma College of Business, University of South Florida 
 
 
Semester: Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Time: Tuesday & Thursday ; 11:00 – 12:15  
Class Meeting Location: BSN 12 4 (from January   to May  , 202 3) 
Instructor: Prof. Terry A. Boyd  
Office Location: BSN 3516  
Office Hours: 5:00 – 6:00 PM Mon days and after class (from August  22 to December  8, 202 2) or by 
appointment  
Email: boyd56@usf.edu   
 
 
 
 
I. Welcome Message 
Welcome  to Human Resource Management . This course will introduce you to concepts found  
in the human resource  literature that will help you as you progress in your career. This course 
will help you to become fully acquainted with the academic concepts of HRM and apply them to 
day to day situations at the workplace . The course will be taught from the perspective that you 
are or will som eday be a leader in an organization with a grasp of the benefits of HRM . 
 
 
II. University Course Descriptio n 
Credit(s):  3 
To develop a broad exposure to new approaches, techniques, and future trends in the 
management of personnel. A study of the major functions in personnel including job analysis, 
manpower planning, selection, performance evaluation, training, and wage and salary 
administration.  
 
III. Course Pre requisite(s) : MAN 3025  with a minimum grade of C  
 
IV. Course Overview/Description 
An examination of the theory and practice of human resource  management , including 
assisting students with building skills needed to recruit, select, train, and develop people. The 
course is design to assist the student with the application of human resource skills 
developed  by presenting the course in five phases: 1) Mission/Values; (2) Producing staffing 
to achieve organizational goals; (3) Sustaining quality staff; (4) Appropriately supporting 
employees; and (5) Societal responsibility.   
 
        
 
V. Learning Goals  
The course is divided into quarters with each focusing on specific reading assignments and 
examinations. To be successful, students should be prepared for each class by reading prior 
to class time and prepare for participation.  Each class will include d iscussions that will 
challenge students to:  
1. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of human 
resource management    
2. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of human resource management  
correctly in new situations  
3. Anal yze issues o f human resource management  using appro priate methods  and 
4. Create and evaluate solutions based on scientific knowledge and evi dence.  
 
Note: Students are required to subscribe to SQUARECAP (a classroom response 
application). See the SQUARECAP Assignment on Canvas for instructions.  
 
VI. Course Objectives 
At the end of this course stud ents shou ld be able to: 
1. Describe the major HRM discipline areas  
2. Understand the purpose for managing human resources  
3. Describe the major equal employment opportunity laws specifying the groups of people 
each law protects, and explain the two primary types of sexual harassment and how to 
avoid them  
4. Summarize the four  methods for shaping employee behavior  
5. Discuss the diffe rence between performance management and performance appraisals  
6. Identify the basic issues that make up an organization’ compensation strategy  and  
7. Identify the factors required in a good code of ethics.  
 
 
VII. Course Topics  
Include (but not limited to):  
Mission/values of the organization and its relationship to HRM, staffing, employee training/development, 
compensation, and societal responsibility of the organization.  
 
 
VIII. Textbook 
Lussier, Robert N. and Hendon, John R.  (2020) Fundamentals of Human Resource  Management  (2nd 
edition). Canada : Sage . 
 
 
IX. Reading Assignments  
 
Parts (weeks of Course)  Chapters  Topics  
Part One: weeks 1 -3 1, 2, and 3  HRM Environment  
Part Two: weeks  4-6 4, 5, and 6  Staffing  
Part Three: weeks 7-9 7, 8, and 9  Developing and Managing  
Part Four: weeks 10 - 12 
                   10 and 1 1 
 Compensation , Incentives and 
Benefits  
Part Five: weeks 1 3 & 14 12 and 13  Workplace Safety, Health and 
Diversity   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X. Basis for Final Grade 
 
Assessment Item Points 
Participation  (Square Cap)  
 
 blogs)    100 
Quizzes (25 points each)  75 
Mid-term               50 
Final Exam            100 
Total    325  
 
 
 
  
Grade  Points  Performance  
A 292 – 325 Excellent  
B 260 – 291 Good  
C 227 – 259 Average  
D 195 – 226 Poor  
F < 195 Failure  
 
 
 
XI. Course Assessment Types 
Attendance Participation  (20%): Your active participation is vital to the learning process. 
However, you cannot par ticipate if you are not in class. Participation will include general 
classroom involvement  and response to graded/timed questions  presented in 
SQUARECAP .  
 
 
Quiz (30%): There will be 3 quizzes (25 points each) based on the classroom discussions  and 
reading  content to ensure you are aware of the main takeaways from each of the 
lectures/sessions . Quiz zes administered on Canvas.  
 
Mid-term Exam ( 20%): The mid -term exam will be based on course content covered 
throughout the course to the date of exam. It will provide a means of assessment of where the 
student stands midway in the course. Mid-term will be administered on Canvas  
 
Final Exam (30%): The final exam will be accumu lative based on the lectures and readings from 
the assigned text . There will be both multiple choice and true/false  questions. Exam will be 
administered on Canvas.  
 
 
XII. Tableau Assignment   
USF has launched a Citizen Data Science Certificate program for the undergraduate students at the 
MUMA college of business. This program is a joint program with Tableau. Please refer to th e 
Tableau presentation (Links to an external site) or the video (Links to an external site) to learn 
more ab out the program.  These links can be found on the Canvas Assignment page.  
 
 
 
XIII. Course Policies on Grades  
Grades of Incomplete: 
The current university policy concerning incomp lete grades will be followed in this course. 
Incomp lete grades are given only in situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a 
stud ent from comp leting the course and the remaining work can be comp leted the nex t 
semester. Your instructor is the final autho rity on whether you qualify for an incomp lete. 
Incomp lete work must  be finished by the end of the subs equent semester or the “I” will 
autom atically be recorded as an “F” on your transcript. 
XIV. Course Policies on Student Expectations  
 
 
Netiquette Guidelines: 
General Comm unication Guidelines 
 
 
1. Act professionally in the way you comm unicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do on a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be 
const ructive when explaining your views about  points you may not agree 
with. 
 
 
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic background s, political and religious beliefs or other 
general differences. 
 
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an e mail or post ing a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thou ghtful. Avoid the use 
of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shout ing, and it is more difficult to read. 
 
4. Keep your comm unications focused and stay on  topic. Comp lete your ideas before changing the 
subject. By keeping the m essage on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for. 
 
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor  or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone  of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted. 
 
 
Email Guidelines: 
 
1. Please allow 24 hours for a response  M-F or 48 hour  response  on weekends and holidays. If I am 
not able to get an answer to you within that timeframe, I will at least acknowledge your email. 
That said – if you do not hear from me within 24 hours/48 hours please feel free to contact me a 
second time. 
2. All emails to have the  course ID, Semester Offered as well as som ething to summ arize the 
content. Example: MAN6055 F2018 – Grade review or MAN6055 F2018 – Exam concern 
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues shou ld be directly comm unicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore any issues shou ld not be posted 
there. 
 
XV. Help Resources 
 
 
Canvas Technical Support: Include information where stud ents can find technical suppo rt. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page in the hom epage of your canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa, or emailing help@usf.edu.  
XVI. University Polices  
  
2021  Fall COVID -19 Mitigation  Expectations  
All students  and instructors  are expected  to wear  face coverings,  at all times,  during  in-
person  classes.  Per guidance from the CDC and Board of Governors,  we expect  that all 
members  of our community  will wear  a mask  on campus,  vaccinated  or unvaccinated.  This 
is especially important while indoors, in crowded outdoor settings, if you have a weakened 
immune system or an underlying medical condition. Masks will be made available to anyone who 
needs one.  
USF strongly  urges  all community  members  to get fully vaccinated.  Vaccines are our most 
reliable means of preventing the spread of COVID -19. The vaccine is free, readily available, and 
all of USF’s faculty, staff, and students are of age to be eligible for the vaccine; therefore, if 
someone choose s not to be vaccinated, they are assuming significant risk, including isolation and 
quarantine. Vaccines are also the most reliable way to ensure that students do not face any 
disruption to their studies or social activities, and faculty and staff do not f ace disruption to their 
teaching, research, or university work.  
It is critically important that individuals who feel unwell stay home and contact Student Health 
Services or their primary care provider for medical advice. Report all possible exposures 
to assessCOVID@usf.edu . 
Students  in in-person  classes  may be assigned  to the same  seat for the duration  of the Fall 
semester.  This can assist with exposure assessments should they be necessary.   
A student  who will be absent  from  an in-person  class  (due  to isolation,  quarantine  or other  
reason)  must  notify  the instructor  immediately  for guidance  on academic  continuity  and 
student  learning.  
Instructors  may schedule  remote  office  hours  during  the Fall 2021  semeste r. 
In-person  classes  may be asked  (by USF leadership  or the COVID -19 team)  to transition  to 
temporary  remote  instruction  at any point  in the Fall semester.  
 
Academic  Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion  of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in  USF Regulation  
3.027 . 
 
Academic  Grievance  Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses  at the University of South Florida an opportunity for obj ective review of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has 
violated published policies and pro cedures,  or has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other students.  
 
Disability  Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibility  Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive ac ademic accommodations. SAS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit 
the Student  Accessibility  Services  website  for more information.  
 Disruption  to Academic  Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF Regulation  3.025 ) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of  the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger t o the health, safety, or well -
being of self or other persons.  
 
Food  and Housing  Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial i ssues affecting their performance in 
classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull 
(feedabull@usf.edu  or their  website ), or Student Outreach and Support 
(socat@usf.edu  or their  website ).  
 
Intellectual  Freedom  and Viewpoint  Diversity  Act (House  Bill 233)  
Preliminary  Guidance  Document  
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the 
student is enrolled for thei r own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal 
or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present information or 
teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other t han class 
lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually or 
part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic 
exercises involving student participation, test or ex amination administrations, field trips, private 
conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty member is 
prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class 
attendance and may not be pu blished or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the  USF Student  
Conduct  Code .  
 
Religious  Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious 
observances, practices and beliefs ( USF Policy  10-045). The University of South Florida,  through 
its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising 
USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes a nd take examinations as 
determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an 
examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students should 
review the course requirements and meeting da ys and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as 
excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the academic 
requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the 
beginning of each academic ter m if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Sexual  Misconduct  / Sexual  Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual vio lence ( USF Policy  0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual as sault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the  Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF  Center  for Victim  Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assa ult, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an educator, 
he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about Title IX, a full list 
of resources, or to report inc idents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or 
stalking visit:  usf.edu/title -ix 
 
Statement  of Academic  Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to moni tor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, 
and ALERTUSF  messages for important general information ( USF Policy  6-010). 
 
 
 
 