ISM 4041  
Global Cyber Ethics  
This course  is part of the University  of South Florida's General Education Curriculum.  It is 
certified  for Human & Cultural Diversity . Students  enrolled  in this course  will be  asked  to 
participate in the  USF General  Education assessment  effort. This  will involve  submitting copies  
of writing  assignments  for review via Canvas .  
ISM 4041 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements of 
the Global Citizen Awards upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or higher).  
Gleb Zavadskiy  
Office: CIS20 46 
Office Hours: By Appointment – Email is effective  
E-mail: zavadskiy@ usf.edu  
Course Description  
This course provides students an in-depth look at the social costs and moral problems that have 
arisen by the expanded  and international  use of the Internet, and offers up -to-date legal and 
philosophical perspectives  on the global scale for the business community . The course will feature 
current research, theoretical frameworks, and case studies, that will highlight the ethical and legal 
practices used in computing technologies, increase the effectiveness of computing students and 
professionals in applying ethical values and legal statues, and provide insight on ethical and legal 
discussions of real -world applications.  
Course Objectives  
This course is designed for undergraduate information systems students, as well as other interested 
students. Students will be introduced to the widespread development of global cyber ethics  issues . 
Students will learn more about impacting issues, laws, and developments that will help shape their 
future within the business community through technology as it spans internationally. The content was 
chosen to facilitate students to grow and develop professionally and morally through readings, class 
participation,  and course activities.  
Human & Cultural Diversity (GenEd)  
This course satisfies the Human & Cultural Diversity general education requirement.  This course will 
give you an understanding of various ethical perspectives or lens through which you and others view 
today’s changing world.  Specifically the challenges associated with technological advances and 
interconnecte dness.  Understanding different ethical perspectives will assist with decision making and 
respecting the differences you will encounter  in group and professional contexts.  Being aware of the 
laws, moral dilemmas, and social costs introduced by global technology will prepare you to make 
informed choices.  Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:  
• Recogniz e differences in people’s values, beliefs, attitudes and behaviors through exploring 
personal ethics in the context of computing technologies   
• Demonstrate the ability to see issues from the perspectives of other groups/cultures by 
describing the values and  communication styles found in groups different from one’s own and 
the way in which those differences can affect styles of verbal and nonverbal communication  
• Define personal values and beliefs using appropriate language and communication methods 
that consider other s’ points of view  and respect differences  
• Discuss global privacy threats posed by computing technologies  
• Identify how security issues in cyberspace raise ethical concerns  
• Recognize various types of cybercrime  and its global impact  
• Describe the key differences between intellectual property and tangible property  
• Discuss ethical issues in IT organizations  
• Discuss the impacts of the global digital divide  
• Describe the pros and cons of online communities  
• Describe multiple dimensions of global systems by exploring ethical policies and practices of 
multinational companies.  
Course Materials  
Required Text:  
Ethics in Information Technology by George Reynolds 6th Edition   
George Reynolds  
ISBN-10: 1-337-40587 -6 
ISBN-13: 978 -1-337-40587 -4 
 
Ethical Lens Inventory and Simulations  
ISBN-13: 978 -0-9827468 -3-7 (available online at https://ethicsgame.com/exec/site/login.html  
or through the bookstore)  
 
All additional PDFs, readings and other materi als will be available via USF’s Canvas . 
 
 
 
  Evaluation Criteria  
All grades will be determined using the following criteria:  
 
Activity  Points  % 
Case Study  Discussion  100 pts 10% 
Case Study Peer Evaluation  10 pts  each  10% 
Ethical Lens 
Inventory/ Professional  Ethics 
Statement  100 pts 15% 
Simulation 1  100 pts  15% 
Simulation 2   100 pts 15% 
Corporate Ethics  Assessment  100 pts 15% 
Quizzes  10 @ 20 pts  20% 
 
NOTE: Please be familiar with the USF’s policies on 
pass/fail, withdrawal, and academic misconduct.  Grading:  
A+ 4.00  98 -100 %  
A 4.00  92 – 97 %  
A- 3.67  90 – 91 %  
B+ 3.33  88 – 89 %  
B 3.00  82 – 87 %  
B- 2.67  80 – 81 %  
C+ 2.33  78 – 79 %  
C 2.00  72 – 77 %  
C- 1.67  70 – 71 %  
D+ 1.33  68 – 69 %  
D 1.00  62 – 67 %  
D- 0.67  60 – 61 %  
F 0.00   < 60 %  
Evaluation Items  
• Case Study Video Presentation  - Students will be assigned create a video presentation of ONE  
discuss case available in your text.  The cases will serve as a framework/benchmark to help 
inform and determine a strategy for your thought process and growth in the understanding of 
cyber ethic s. The video post is worth 100 points and counts for 1 0% of your final grade. You will 
be expected to prepare a 5 -10 minute video presentation on your assigned case. In the video 
presentation, you must:  
o Identify yourself and the case name  
o Give an overview of case details – please paraphrase…no points for just reading the 
case.   
o Research the case topic and provide updated and /or supplementary material .  
o The ethical dilemma(s) in the form of a question(s),  
▪ State and defend their position on  the dilemma.   
o Discuss the questions following the case  
• Case Study Ethical Dilemma Discussion – Using a template provided students will be 
expected to evaluate each case study (except the one they are assigned). Each Peer Evaluation is 
worth 10 points and counts for 10% of your final grade.  
#GEA1: Ethical Lens Inventory and Professional  Ethics Statement - Complete the online 
Ethical Lens Inventory survey and write a Professional  Ethics Statement that translates your core 
values into specific behaviors  you will follow in your professional life .  The Ethical Lens Inventory™ 
(ELI) is 36 -question instruments that will help you identify your preferred ethical perspective and 
reflect o n how your personal core values influence your decisions.  The ELI will also introduce you to 
The Four Ethical Lenses™, four perspectives for analyzing ethical dilemmas.  
This assignment is worth 100 points and counts for 15% of your final grade.  Assignme nt graded for 
both content and grammar .  Minimum word count: 500 Words  
1) Complete the Ethical Lens Inventory (ELI). Download and attach a copy of your results to this 
assignment. (see Figure 1: Example ELI results below)  
2) Write your Professional Ethics Statem ent which should be completed after reflection on which 
values of the Four Ethical Lenses.  Reflect on the dilemmas you may be faced with in your professional life  and assess what are the most important values to you in your professional  life. 
Create a pro fessional ethics statement to guide your professional life.   
Example statement shells:   
[Choose two to four values] serve as the foundation for my work life …. To follow these values I [specific 
behaviors that show how you live by these values] to live out my core ethical principles.  
 
I choose to live my work life applying [choose two to four values] and I express these values by [specific behaviors 
that show how you live by these values] to build a strong ethical character.  
 
I value [choose two to four values] because [reasons why these values are important to you]. Accordingly, I will 
[what you can do to live by these values] to build strong, fair relationships within my work environment.  
 
I live each day with [choose two to four values] so that [w hat living by these values will give  
you]. I will do this by [specific behaviors you will use to live by these values] to achieve my  
ethical goals.  
IDEAS TO PRIME THE PUMP  
• Reflect on which values are the most important to you in your work life.  
• Keep the statement simple and clear. Whether you are writing a short statement or a longer 
reflection, make sure you use words that you understand and have meaning for you.  
• Keep your statement positive. Focus on your strengths and your ethical aspirations .  
• Your professional statement should touch upon who you are (your character) and the 
values that have a significant positive impact on your work life.  
• Include behaviors and character traits that you consider particularly important or ones you 
want to dev elop further.  
2) Be creative and come up with your own words so that your statement reflects who you are.  
3) Defend your statement.  AFTER YOU WRITE YOUR PROFESSIONAL ETHICAL 
STATEMENT:  Look back at the information about your primary/preferred lens:  
a. Write a s hort statement of how well the professional ethics statement reflects the core 
values and areas of growth for that lens.  
b. Include a discussion how you might best deal with your blind spot.  
4) Compare and contrast your ethical lens perspective with at least on e other lens and how you 
might respect those differences.  
Figure 1: Example Ethical Lens Inventory Result   
• Global Citizen Assignment - Ethics Simulations  (2) – Students will complete two  short and 
engaging virtual simulations that challenge them to make decisions from multiple ethical 
perspectives on global cyber ethical dilemmas.  Each simulation is an immersive, interactive and 
iterative learning tool where students practice making decisions.  A Hot Topics Simulation™ is 
comprised of two different dilemmas that allow you to role play resolving an ethical dilemma in a 
virtual setting. The simulations will teach you how to analyze problems from multiple perspectives 
and deepen your knowledge of The Four Ethica l Lenses. You will also learn how to use the Baird 
Decision Model™, an easy to understand decision -making model. Each dilemma will take about 
forty-five minutes to complete and is in the form of multiple choice questions. As you go along, 
you will receive feedback as to why your answers are correct or incorrect  from as specific ethical 
perspective . At the end of each dilemma you will then be asked to write a short memo to inform 
your colleagues of your decision and the reasons behind it.  Each assignment is worth a total of 
100 points  and count  for 15% of your final grade . 
• # GEA2: Corporate Ethics Assessment - Using the insights from the lectures, case 
discussions, personal and professional ethics statements as a foundation; this assignment asks 
you to reflect on the ethical posture of a multinational corporation.  You will research a 
multinational company and i nvestigate its ethical policies and practices. These polices can 
normally be found using a Google search.  
 
This assignment is worth 100 points and counts for 15% of your final grade.  The assignment will 
be graded for both content and grammar .  Minimum wo rd count: 800  
 
• Include Personal and Professional Ethics Statements – revise to include instructor feedback.  
• Choose a multinational corporation.  Linkable list of multinational corporations: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_multinational_corporations .  
o Include a link to the corporate ethics policy page .  
o Write a  summary of the most salient information that describes the ethical policy of the 
corporation.  
• Evaluate and describe how the corporate ethical policies, values, and perspectives may differ 
across different cultural groups, or whether for example the corporate practices and ethic 
statement addresses cultural and legal issues that may vary across nati ons or cultural groups.  
• Compare  how the corporate ethical policies, values, and perspectives differ or are similar  to 
your Professional Ethics Statement.   
o Based on this comparison would you be a good fit to work for this company?  Why or why 
not? 
• Quizzes  (10) – Students will complete 10 quizzes covering material in the chapters and lectures.  
Each quiz in worth a total of 20 points and counts for 20% of your final grade.  
Course Policies  
• For questions about the course content or any assignment, please contact me for a face-to-face 
appointment. You can also contact me via email.  
• All work should be completed using professional standards. Assignments will be submitted via 
Canvas  and submitted to Turnitin .  Please ensure that you cite any material referenced 
appropriately . If you have any  question, please do not hesitate to ask for clarification or 
assistance.  
• To improve the efficiency and effectiveness in delivering course content, each student will  be 
responsible for all items contained or emails sent via Canvas . 
• Late Assignments : There are no make -ups for course deliverables. This course is 100% online.  
Students are expected to read the corresponding material from the text, view the video lectures 
and complete the assessments and term project. As signments are due on the dates indicated  on 
Canvas   Late project assignments are subject to a 50% late penalty.  
 
No Assessment Quizzes submitted after the assigned deadline  will be accepted (=you 
will receive 0 points if you submit your quiz answers after the provided deadline).  
 
• Schedule: (Tentative)  15 Week  
Week  Discussion Topic  Reading  
W1 Introduction to course – Syllabus Review  
First day attendance discussion post   
W2 Ch 1: Overview of Ethics / Cyber  Ethics Defined  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZn0IfOb61U   
Cases:  
VW Cheats on Emission Testing  Book pg 34  
Toshiba Accounting Scandal  Book pg 37  
Ethical and Business Setbacks for Nokia  Handout pg 8 
Is There a Place for Ethics in IT?  Handout pg 1 2 
 Ch 1  
W3 Ch 2: Ethic in IT  
Cases:  
Bridgestone Versus IBM  Book pg 76  Ch 2  SAP Found in Violations of FCPA  Book pg 78  
Whistle -Blower Claims Accounting Shenanigans at SuccessFactors  Handout pg 1 7 
When Certification is Justified  Handout pg 2 3 
 
W4 Ch 3: Computer and Internet Crime  
Cases:  
Fairplay Turns to a Managed Security Service Provider  Book pg 125  
Sony's Response to North Korea's Cyberattack  Book pg 126  
Defending Against Distributed Denial -of-Service Attacks  Handout pg 2 9 
Computer Forensics  Handout pg 3 5 
 Ch 3  
W5 Ch 4: Privacy and Cyberspace  
Data Protection Laws of the World  
https://www.dlapiperdataprotection.com/index.html#handbook/world -map -section/c1_CV  
https://www .youtube.com/watch?v=6vNxslcf9AE  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vHvd6HaPq_s  
Cases:  
Serious Data Breach at OPM  Book pg 175  
Time to Update the Electronic Communications Privacy Act  Book pg 177  
“Extraterritorial Jurisdiction” Puts Citizen Data at Risk  Handout pg 38  
Facebook Troubles with User Privacy  Handout pg 4 2 
Google Collects Unprotected Wireless Network Information  Handout pg 4 8 
 Ch 4  
W6 Ch 5: Freedom of Expression  
Cases:  
Techdirt Sued for Defamation  Book pg 214  
China's Great Firewall  Book pg 215  
Lawsuits Aimed at Yelp and Its Reviewers  Handout pg 5 4 
WikiLeaks Continues to Post Classified Materials  Handout pg 5 6 
Facebook, Freedom of Speech, Defamation, and Cyberbullying  Handout pg 61 
 Ch 5  
W7 Regulating  Commerce  & Network  Neutrality   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wtt2aSV8wdw   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p90McT24Z6w   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8bUuvfDmsAs    
W8 Ethical Lens Inventory /Professional Ethics Statement   
W9 Ch 6: Intellectual Property (global perspective)  
Cases:  
Target Hires Key Executives Away from Amazon  Book pg 255  
Intellectual Property Fight over Virtual Reality Headset  Book pg 257  
Alice Case Raises Concerns for the Future of IT Software Patents  Handout pg 6 8 
Rockstar Consortium - Beware the Patent Troll  Handout pg 71 
Google Book Search Library Project  Handout pg 74 
 Ch 6  
W10  Ch 7: Ethical Issues in Software Development  
Cases:  
F-35 Plagued with Software Issues  Book pg 293  
How Safe are Self -Driving Cars?  Book pg 295  
Apple Guidelines for App Approval  Handout pg 82 
Software Errors Lead to Death  Handout pg 85 
 Ch 7  W11  Ch 8: The Impact of Information Technology on Productivity and Quality of Life/ Global Digital Divide  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kaxCRnZ_CLg   
Cases:  
IBM Watson - Not Yet Ready fo r Primetime  Book pg 323  
Sophia Genetics Moves Precision Medicine Ahead  Book pg 324  
Is the Tide Turning on Telework?  Handout pg 92 
Kaiser Permanente Implements Electronic Health Record (EHR) System  Handout pg 95 
Decision Support for Healthcare Diagnosis  Handout pg 99 
 Ch 8  
W12  Simulation s: The Case of the Misbegotten Memo  and The Case of the Lamentable Launch   
W13  Ch 9: Social Networking  
Cases:  
CDA Protects Social Media Companies  Book pg 351  
Google Losing Revenue in Dispute over Placement of Ads  Book pg 353  
Procter & Gamble Turns to Social Networking  Handout pg 104 
Social Networks for Chronic Health Condition Sufferers  Handout pg 107 
Facebook Raises Privacy Issues  Handout pg 109 
 Ch 9  
W14  Ch 10: Global Outsourcing  
Cases:  
Disney Workers Replaced with H -1B Visa Workers  Book pg 390  
E-Waste - An Important Global Environmental and Health Issue  Book pg 392  
E-Verify  Handout pg 1 17 
Problems with Suppliers  Handout pg 1 21 
 Ch 10  
W15  Corporate Ethics Assessment   
Standard Policies    
Information regarding these policies are standard items, many of which can be included as a hyperlink 
(http://usf.edu/undergrad/standard -policies.aspx ) if so desired. Some are only necessary if applicable.  
1. Final Examinations Policy  
All final examinations are to be sc heduled in accordance with the University's final examination policy.  
 
o http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/FinalExams.pdf  
2. General Attendance Policy  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/GeneralAttendance.pdf  
3. Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days  
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class du e to the observation of a major religious 
observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at the beginning of the term.  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/R eligiousDays.pdf  
4. Academic Integrity of Students  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/AcademicIntegrityOfStudents.pdf  
5. Disruption of the Academic Process  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/DisruptionOfAcademicProcess.pdf  
6. Gender -Based Crimes  
USF has a commitment  to the safety  and well-being  of our students.   Please  be aware  that educators  must report 
incidents  of sexual  harassment  and gender -based  crimes  including  sexual  assault,  stalking,  and domestic/relationship  
violence  that come  to their attention.  I am required  to report  such incidents  in order for the Office  of Student  Rights  
and Responsib ilities or the Office  of Diversity,  Inclusion,  and Equal  Opportunity  can investigate  the incident  or 
situation  as a possible  violation  of the USF Sexual  Misconduct/Sexual  Harassment  Policy  and provide  assistance  to the 
student  making  the disclosure.  If you disclose  in class or to me personally,  I must report  the disclosure  and will assist  
you in accessing  available  resources.  
 The Center  for Victim  Advocacy  and Violence  Prevention,  the Counseling  Center  and Student  Health  Services  are 
confidential  resources  where  you can talk about  such situations  and receive  assistance  without  the incident  being  
reported.  
o Center  for Victim  Advocacy  and Violence  Prevention:  
▪ (813)  974-5757 
▪ http://sa.usf.edu/advocacy  
o Counseling  Center  
▪ (813)  974-2831 
▪ http://usf.edu/student -affairs/counseling -center  
o Student  Health  Services  
▪ (813)  974-2331 
▪ http://usf.edu/student -affairs/student -health -services  
7. Student Academic Grievance Procedures  
http://www.ugs.usf.edu/policy/StudentAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf  
8. Students with Disabilities  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with S tudents with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to 
receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 
business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this re quest.  
o See student responsibilities:  http://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/  
o See instructor responsibilities:  Student  with  Disabilities  Services  Faculty/Staff  Handbook  
9. Turnitin Privacy Policy  
In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to i nclude personal identifying information, such as 
name, in the body of the document.  Turnitin provides an originality report letting the instructor know how much of 
the assignment is original. Please follow your instructor's instructions carefully regarding  what identifying information 
to include.  
o How  do I submit  a Turnitin  Assignment?  
10. University Emergency Policy  
In the event of an emergency,  it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may 
opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Elluminate, 
Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. I t's the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas site 
for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and 
MoBull messages for important general infor mation.  