ISM 3113: Systems Analysis and De cision Making  
Professor: Thomas R. Gill  Office: Remote Virtual (Spring 202 3) 
Email: thomasgill@usf.edu  Hours:  Tuesday & Thursday, 3 -5 pm.   
Phone: (813) 416 -5021   
 
Course Objectives:  
              
Description as Stated in Course Catalog: The course presents concepts, procedures, and tools 
needed to build computer -based information systems. The objective is to develop project 
management, data collection, analysis, design, testing and documentation skills.  
Learning Outcomes:  After completing this course, you should be  
• Familiar  with the systems development li fe cycle  
• Able to define and analyze the requirements for a prospective IS system  
• Able to perform a Use Case Analysis  
• Familiar with process modeling and the applications of data flow diagrams  
• Familiar with data modeling and the applications of Entity Relationships diagrams  
• Familiar with Architecture Design, User Interface Design, Program Design, and Data 
Storage design  
• Familiar with various aspects of the implementation phase such as testing and 
documentation  
• Able to devise a migration plan for the tra nsition to a new system  
Course Materials and Assignments : 
              
Textbook:  
Systems Analysis & Design, 6th Ed., Dennis, Wixom, and Roth, 2015. ISBN: 9781118897843.  
Individual Assignments:  
There will be seven assignments total for this course, each one covering topics from two chapters 
in the textbook.  
Midterm Exams:  
There will be two exams based on the topics you’ve learned in class. The questions on these 
exams should be roughly similar to those on the assignments. The exams are open notes, open 
books, open google… just don’t copy any answers verbatim from another student’s paper and 
we’ll be square.  
Final P aper : 
The final p aper will be a 3 -5 page document outlining a proposal for  a new system . Included in 
this proposal will be the business need that is being fulfilled , the system’s requirements, and 
aspects of its design. Feel free to include diagrams and suggestions regarding the methodology 
that you think is the best fit for the  project.  This project may completed individually or in a 
group of up to three people.  The expectations will be the same regardless.  
  Grading : 
              
• 70% Assignments (10% per assignment)  
• 20% midterms (10% per midterm)  
• 10% final paper  
My Groundbreaking Lateness Policy:  Late work receives a zero grade until submitted. For 
each day an assignment is late, 1% will be deducted from the assignment grade. This, however, 
does not apply in the case of the final paper, which will be due right be fore my grades are due , so 
there’s not much I can do for you there.  
Grading scale : The following table explains the final letter gr ades:  
A >92 
A- 89-92 
B+ 85-89 
B 82-85 
B- 79-82 
C+ 75-79 
C 72-75 
C- 69-72 
D 59-69 
F <59 
 
Academic  Integrity  
 
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defin ed, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined i n detail in  USF  Regulation  
3.027 . 
 
Academic  Grievance  Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students t aking 
courses  at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that stud ent’s academic record or status has 
violated published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other students.  
 
Disability  Access  
 Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with  Students Accessibilty Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must ac company this request. Please visit 
the Student  Accessibility  Services  website  for more information.  
 
Disruption  to Academic  Progress  
 
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF  Regulation  3.025 ) is defined as the a ct, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectfu l or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or 
well-being of self or other persons.  
 
Food  and Housing  Insecurity  
 
We recognize that student facing financ ial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance 
in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull 
(feedabull@usf.edu  or their  website ), or Student Outreach and Support 
(socat@usf.edu  or their  website ).  
 
Intellectual  Freedom  and Viewpoint  Diversity  Act (House  Bill 233)  
 
Preliminary  Guidance  Document  
Students  may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which 
the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a 
formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course  intended to present 
information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other 
than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether 
individually or part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, 
academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field 
trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty 
membe r is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and 
class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violatio n of the  USF  Student  
Conduct  Code .  
 
 
 
Religious  Observances  
 All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs ( USF  Policy  10-045). The University of South 
Florida, through its faculty, will make ever y attempt to schedule required classes and 
examinations in view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or 
communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take 
examinations as determined b y the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit 
for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students 
should review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable 
conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the 
academic requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at 
the beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Sexual  Misconduct  / Sexual  Harassment  
 
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF  Policy  0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual ass ault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the  Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the  USF  Center  for Victim  Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must 
report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, 
and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an 
educator, he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about 
Title IX, a full lis t of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, 
relationship violence or stalking visit:  usf.edu/title -ix 
 
Statement  of Academic  Continuity  
 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alter nate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, 
and ALERTUSF  messages for important general information ( USF  Policy  6-010). 
 
 