© 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 QMB -6304-001 
Analytical Methods for Business  
Spring, 202 3 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Ronald K. Satterfield      
Office:   CIS 2054  
Office Hours:  Regular hours will be announced via Canvas.   
   All office hours will be held via Microsoft Teams.  
E-mail:  rsatterf@usf.edu   (The Canvas email function is cumbersome.  Please email your 
professor directly at this address rather than going through Canvas.)     
 
 
Course Description  
This course will give you a background in fundamental statistics and intro duce you to 
statistical programming in R.  We will begin with a review of basic concepts, measures 
of central tendency and dispersion, and probability distributions.  Afterward the course 
will concentrate on confidence intervals, hypothesis tests, regressi on, correlation, 
logistic regression, analysis of variance, and fundamentals of mathematical optimization.  
The emphasis will be on applications, concepts and interpretation of results, rather than 
derivations and calculations.  
 
This course is offered on a blended -model basis.  For most weekly sessions students will 
be asked to view an introductory lecture video on the week’s topic prior to the live class 
session.  Live sessions will assume students are familiar with the video and  will 
concentrate on 1) the use of software to conduct statistical analyses, and 2) completion 
of individual in -class assignments which will be due at the end of the scheduled class 
time.  Full instructions for completing assignments will be given in class .   
 
Statistical Data Mining  
The strongest recommendation is given that students NOT take this course in 
combination with Statistical Data Mining (ISM -6137).   Statistical Data Mining takes 
principles taught in this course and extends them.  Therefore, a st udent attempting to 
take both courses simultaneously would be greatly handicapped in successfully 
completing Statistical Data Mining by not having important foundation knowledge.  
 
Textbooks   
Basic Statistics:  An Introduction with R , Tenko Raykov  and George A. Marcoulides, 
Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc., 2012.  
 
A First Course in Statistical Programming with R , W. John Braun and Duncan J. 
Murdoch, Cambridge University Press, 2011.   This book is one of two selected for this 
course to serve as  a good general reference for R and R programming.  As experience 
with R and general programming will be varied within the group use of this resource is 
left to students’ judgment.   
 
Beginning R:  The Statistical Programming Language , Mark Gardener, John Wiley and 
Sons, 2012.  This book is one of two selected for this course to serve as a good general 
© 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 reference for R and R programming.  As experience with R and general programming 
will be varied within the group use of this resource i s left to students’ judgment.   
 
Electronic versions of these books are available at no cost to USF students via:  
 
http://ezproxy.lib.u sf.edu/login?url=http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=836575 . 
 
http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO97813164510 90. 
 
http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=1076196 . 
 
Software  
We will be primarily using R with R Studio  in this course.  Some supplemental work 
will be done with Microsoft Excel , and Minitab .  The complete MS -Office suite is also 
available to all USF students free of charge to install on their own machines.  For any 
technical assistance you need in gaining access to MS -Office call USF Tech Support at 
974-1222.  Minitab is not required for this c ourse, but if you wish your own installation 
Minitab offers 30 -day free trials of its software  via direct download.  Extended academic 
licenses for students are also available at nominal cost.   R and R Studio  are both 
available as free downloads.  Install R first from www.r -project.org , then install R 
Studio from www.rstudio.com .  There are numerous online sites that can give assistance 
if needed with these tasks.  Some add -in packages for R will also be used.  This line of R 
code will install the packages you need for this course.  
 
install.packages(c("car", "Hmisc", "rio", "moments", "corrplot", 
"MASS", "stargazer "),dep=TRUE)  
 
Please be prepared at our initial  class meeting to use R and R Studio.  This means you 
should have the software installed and ready for use before class.     
 
Outside Materials  
Numerous materials are available online to help students learn general statistics as well 
as R programming.  Usi ng such materials would not constitute an act of academic 
misconduct in this course.  For students who feel they need additional assistance with 
course material beyond that given in class, these materials can be quite useful.  One 
excellent resource is a s eries of R Studio tutorial videos available on YouTube and 
created by Michael Marin  of the University of British Columbia.  There are many videos 
in this set and they can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/user/marinstatlectures . 
 
  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Learning Outcomes   
Upon completion of the course students will demonstrate the ability to:  
 
1. Understand difference between inferential and descriptive statistics.  
2. Use R to build simple graphics, and be able to interpret those graphics.  
3. Use R to apply basic inferential tools to data, such as confidence intervals, hypothesis 
test, regressions, and other associated analyses.  
4. Interpret a confiden ce interval.  
5. Formulate and interpret results from a simple hypothesis test.  
6. Set up and evaluate results of a regression analysis.  
7. Estimate the influence of factors in an analysis of variance.  
8. Predict the probability of an event after conducting a logistic regression analysis.  
9. Build a simple mathematical programming model for a business case.  
 
Course Assignments  
Ten assignments will be administered in this course, each corresponding to concepts 
taught in a particular module.   Each assignment will be worth 5 0 points.   The 
assignments are to be completed individually with no consultation from other students.  
Any collaboration , in-person or electronic,  with current or former students will be 
considered an act of academic misconduct and will be dealt with accor dingly.  Please 
see the Academic Integrity and Honorlock in Assignments section s of this syllabus.   
You may, however, use any legitimate third -party electronic references dealing with 
statistics or R in the completion of your assignment and the construction of your 
deliverable.   
 
Assignments will be completed during time set aside in class and uploaded to Canvas 
prior to the scheduled end time for our weekly session.  In-class assignments turned in 
late to Canvas will be assessed a penalty of ten points per half -hour late or portion 
thereof.  For example, if a student turns in an assignment 45 minutes late they will 
suffer a 20 -point penalty.  This penalty will be in additi on to normal deductions of 
points for failure to do the assignment correctly.  Times of assignment uploads are 
recorded by Canvas and reported to the professor.  
 
Should you wish to discuss the grading and points awarded for any assignment your 
professor is  happy to accommodate you.  However, you must do so within two weeks 
of the graded assignment being returned to you via Canvas.  If you do not discuss such 
with your professor within the two -week window the professor will assume you are 
satisfied with the grading of the assignment and will consider the points awarded to be 
final.  After the two -week window no discussions of points awarded on an assignment 
will be entertained.  
  
 
 
  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Honorlock in Assignments  
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms 
and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this cours e before the end of the drop/add period.   
 
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand  that this remote recording device is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.   
 
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should s elect private spaces for the 
testing. Students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor.   
 
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights 
and accep t all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy 
concerns.   
 
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable 
computer and high -speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior 
to taking the proctored exam.  To use Honorlock, students are required to download and 
install the  Honorlock Google Chrome extension . For additional information please  visit 
the USF online proctoring student FAQ  and Honorlo ck student resources .  
 
Honorlock is a facility used across USF to insure security and fairness in online 
assignments.  We use Honorlock in this course for our course assignments.  On our 
course Canvas site is a specialized module developed by USF to teach  you how to use 
Honorlock, help you install all needed parts of Honorlock on your computer, and test 
Honorlock’s functioning.  It is your responsibility to make sure you have 
Honorlock properly working on your computer before each  assignment.   
Honorlock ca n be tested at any time by taking the Honorlock Practice Quiz always 
available to you on Cavas.  Should you have difficulty there are tech support facilities 
open to you should, provided by USF and Honorlock. Whether you complete 
assignments in our classro om or elsewhere, you must use Honorlock to record the 
entire duration of your work  in completing the assignment.  No Honorlock, no 
points for the assignment.   In our course we also have other conditions and 
requirements involving Honorlock, academic integr ity, and our assignments.  These are:  
 
1. You must have a webcam on all our assignments.  Your webcam will be recorded as 
will your computer screen and your browsing activity.   
2. Your webcam must be positioned to show your face completely.  
3. Lighting in your loca tion must be sufficient to recognize your face.  Backlighting 
should be minimal.   
4. Only one monitor may be used during our assignments.  
5. You should complete your assignment in a place where you have a reasonable 
expectation of being alone.   © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 6. Conversation or communication with any other person  while completing the 
assignment will be considered collaboration and an act of academic misconduct.  
This includes verbal, non -verbal, and electronic communication.  
7. Soliciting, receiving, or providing assistance by any m eans while completing the 
assignment will be considered an act of academic misconduct.  This includes but is 
not limited to coding advice, code chunks, script files, analysis output, and 
interpretations of analysis results.  
8. Using code from prior student as signments will be considered an act of academic 
misconduct.  
9. Submitting as your own any work done by others will be considered an act of 
academic misconduct.  
 
Committing academic misconduct in this course will result in a failing (F) grade for the 
course.  In such a case the course will need to be taken again in order to complete the 
MS-BAIS degree.  Other penalties may be applied by the School of Information Systems 
and Management.   Particularly egregious cases will result in a Double -FF (FF) grade 
being awarded, which will lead to expulsion from our program and the University of 
South Florida.  
 
Further, students are reminded that webcam videos are recorded and are accessible at 
any time by the professor an d his designees as well as other technical staff of USF and 
Honorlock.  Professional deportment is recommended while recordings are being made.  
 
Integrity of Technology  
Students are also reminded that, as would be the case in working on a job or for a 
contracting client, integrity of your technology is your responsibility.   Excuses of 
“laptop problems” will not be accepted in the case of late work submissions.  Make 
certain your technology is in proper working order before every assignment.  
 
Grade Determin ation  
This is a 550 -point course. Letter grades will be awarded according to the percentage 
scale below.            
Letter Grade  Percent Score  
A 93% - 100% 
A- 90% - 93% 
B+ 87% - 90% 
B 83% - 87% 
B- 80% - 83% 
C+ 77% - 80% 
C 73% - 77% 
C- 70% - 73% 
D+ 67% - 70% 
D 63% - 67% 
D- 60% - 63% 
F Below 60%  
 
 © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Course Policies  
 
Attendance Quiz  
To meet USF’s First Day Attendance requirement in these times a short one -question 
attendance quiz has been set up in Canvas.  Please complete the quiz before Thursday, 
January 1 2, 202 3 at 11:59 PM .  If you do not complete the quiz, or if you answer “no” t o 
the single question, you will be administratively dropped from our course.  
 
Late Work Policy   
There are no make -up opportunities for assignments .  Assignments turned in late will 
be assessed a penalty of ten points per half -hour late or portion thereof.  This penalty 
will be in addition to normal deductions of points for failure to do the assignment 
correctly.  Times of assignment uploads are recorded by Canvas and reported to the 
professor.  
 
Extra Credit Policy   
There are no opportunities for ex tra credit in this course.  Students’ focus should be on 
the primary work in the course.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete"   
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student when 1) arrangements are made prior to the 
end of the semester, 2) in the judgment of the instructor a valid reason is offered for 
granting an Incomplete, and 3) a clear path to a standard grade is agreed to by the 
instructor and the student which will result in successful completion of course 
requirements by the end of the succeeding semester.  “I” grade s not replaced  by the end 
of the subsequent  semester will be changed to “IF”  and are a failing grade for the course . 
 
Email  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students between live class 
meetings will be email.  “Blast emails” will occasionally be sent by the instructor to all 
students via Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with questions at any 
time.  Please anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
 
Canvas  
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in weekly assignments 
and return graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks 
related to this or other courses in Canvas, please consult the Canvas help guides. You 
may also contact USF's IT supp ort at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Laptop Usage  
Laptop/Tablet usage is highly encouraged in this course given the nature of the material.   
 
Phone Usage  
Students attending the in -person lectures are asked to place their mobile phones on 
“silent” and to step outside the classroom to take any important calls.  Phones may not be 
used during in -class assignments.  
 
  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Academic Integrity  and Academic Misconduct  
Academic i ntegrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s 
commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university 
community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which 
include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the 
completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as 
representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity 
violation and related academic sanction at any USF  System institution shall affect and 
be applied to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless 
otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.   The process for 
faculty reporting of academic misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, 
are outlined in detail in USF System Regulation 3.027.  
 
In our course assignments the professor has several methods fo r penalizing those who 
engage in academic misconduct.  Among these methods the professor can 1) award 0 
points for an assignment on which a student has engaged in misconduct, 2) award an F 
in the entire course, or 3) award a special FF grade in the course.   An FF appears 
permanently on the student's transcript as a special designation showing the student 
failed the course for reasons of academic misconduct.   The FF includes expulsion from 
the University.  
 
Web Posting Course Materials  
Students are reminded that posting course materials to third -party sites such as Course 
Hero or Chegg represents a violation of the professor’s copyright on those materials and 
constitutes theft of intellectual property.    
 
Disruption to Academic Process   
Disruptiv e students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption 
of the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a 
classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the heal th, 
safety, or well -being of self or other persons.  
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures   
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity fo r 
objective review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. 
An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that 
affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies an d 
procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for 
other students.  
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to receive academic acco mmodations. SDS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation requests at least 5 business days prior to needing 
the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
  
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including 
sexual harassment and sexual violence ( USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for 
Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can 
talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual 
assault, stalking, and domestic/rel ationship violence. This confidential resource can 
help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights 
and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal 
Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request t hat they make a report. Please be aware that in 
compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. I f you disclose any of these situations in 
class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for 
investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: 
(813) 974 -5757.  
 
  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Attendance Policy   
Student s are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular and on -time 
attendance to class lectures , whether those lectures attending lectures live or online .   
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate 
their religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you 
should plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  
 © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Material Coverage  and Schedule  
 
Day Date  Topic   
Monday  1/9/2023 Intro to Statistics and R  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 1, 2, and 3.  
Wednesday  1/11/2023 Intro to Statistics and R  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 1, 2, and 3.  
Monday  1/16/2023 MLK Holiday   
Wednesday  1/18/2023 Assignment 1   
Monday  1/23/2023 Probability Distributions & CLT  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 5 and 6.  
Wednesday  1/25/2023 Probability Distributions & CLT  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 5 and 6.  
Monday  1/30/2023 CI and Hypothesis Tests  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 7.  
Wednesday  2/1/2023 Assignment 2   
Monday  2/6/2023 CI and Hypothesis Tests  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 7.  
Wednesday  2/8/2023 CI and Hypothesis Tests  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 7.  
Monday  2/13/2023 Simple Regression   
Wednesday  2/15/2023 Assignment 3   
Monday  2/20/2023 Simple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 11 and 12.  
Wednesday  2/22/2023 Simple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 11 and 12.  
Monday  2/27/2023 Simple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapters 11 and 12.  
Wednesday  3/1/2023 Assignment 4   
Monday  3/6/2023 Multiple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 13.  
Wednesday  3/8/2023 Multiple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 13.  
Monday  3/13/2023 Spring Break   
Wednesday  3/15/2023 Spring Break   
Monday  3/20/2023 Multiple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 13.  
Wednesday  3/22/2023 Assignment 5   
Monday  3/27/2023 Multiple Regression  Raykov & Marcoulides:  Chapter 13.  
Wednesday  3/29/2023 Assignment 6   
Monday  4/3/2023 Time Series Regression  None.  Class lectures will be the primary reference materials.  Students are free 
to draw on any other materials for reference.  © 202 3 Ronald K. Satterfield  
 Wednesday  4/5/2023 Assignment 7   
Monday  4/10/2023 Logistic Regression  None.  Class lectures will be the primary reference materials.  Students are free 
to draw on any other materials for reference.  
Wednesday  4/12/2023 Assignment 8   
Monday  4/17/2023 Analysis of Variance  None.  Class lectures will be the primary reference materials.  Students are free 
to draw on any other materials for reference.  
Wednesday  4/19/2023 Assignment 9   
Monday  4/24/2023 Math Optimization I  None.  Class lectures will be the primary reference materials.  Students are free 
to draw on any other materials for reference.  
Wednesday  4/26/2023 Math Optimization II  None.  Class lectures will be the primary reference materials.  Students are free to draw 
on any other materials for reference.  
 