University of South Florida  
Muma College of Business  
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)  
GEB6930 Case Method Publication Course  
Faculty : 
Matthew T. Mullarkey  
https://www.usf.edu/business/contacts/mullarkey -matthew.aspx  
Overview : 
A case researcher closely examines a particular phenomenon in its context. Case research is one of the 
most effective means for the researcher to have i mpact on practice and for practice to influence 
research. Discussion case research is a particularly effective way for a researcher to look at current, 
topical issues in organizations in a "real -time" manner. Well written and rigorously researched 
discussi on cases with a relevant, authentic, challenging business decision are ideal for inclusion in 
business course curriculum for engaging students in discussion and critical thinking about what a 
protagonist should do and why.  
After conducting a case study, th e researcher may produce a discussion case, a theory -proposing or 
theory -testing research case, or both a discussion case and a research case. A discussion case tells an 
interesting story while translating case research findings into a form that supports l earning through 
collaborative, evidence -based discussion centered on a tough decision the protagonist and organization 
are trying to make. A research case proposes, tests, or extends theory.  
This course will focus on the steps in designing, researching, a nd writing useful and interesting 
discussion cases. Each  student will develop a discussion case as if for publication . In many cases the 
student may also develop it s accompanying teaching note (a document which explains the theoretical or 
conceptual or fra mework foundation for a case and offers suggestions for teaching  a particular course). 
We will discuss in class several types of discussion cases and provide an introduction into how to 
conduct case research that provides a foundation for producing one or more research cases for 
presentation at scholarly conferences and/or publication in a scholarly journal, and in the short term 
yields one or more publishable discussion cases. We will also discuss the path to publishing case 
research and the ways case rese arch can be incorporated into organizational settings.  
Course Objectives : 
Upon completing this course, participants should be able to:  
• Explain the strengths and weaknesses of case research.  • Recognize the forms and purposes of different types of discussion cases.  
• Research and write a discussion case for publication and instructor adoption.  
• Develop a draft teaching note to accompany the case.  
• Recognize how a teaching note’s Theory and Frameworks section provides a foundation for a 
theory -building research cas e published in a peer -reviewed scholarly journal.  
• Understand one or more paths to case research publication.  
• Understand how case research can be performed in situ with organizations in ways that effect 
practice.  
Policies:  
Grading: This course follows the s tandard DBA grading policy: satisfactory work completed on time 
receives a grade of A. Work that is not sufficiently developed must be revised to a satisfactory level. In 
the event such revisions run past the end of the semester, upon satisfactory completi on, a grade of B is 
awarded. An A grade will be awarded to satisfactory discussion case with teaching note that is 
submitted on the date/time for the assignment.  
Academic Integrity: The course subscribes to all academic integrity requirements set forth by  the 
University of South Florida. A link to these requirements is provided on the course Canvas site.  
References:  
Informing with the Case Method , T. Grandon Gill (Informing Science Press, 2011) Online Version.  
Case Study Research: Design & Methods , Robert Yin  (Sage , latest edition ). 
The Art and Craft of Case Writing , William & Margaret Naumes  (latest edition) . 
Other Course Materials : 
Cases, Powerpoints  and Readings provided on the online course learning m anagement platform . 
Assignments  
(always reference latest dates and submission requirements in Canvas Course)  
 Date  Details  
March  Assignment  Read & Analyze Case 1  
Assignment  Upload Pre -Case for Case 1  
 
March  Assignment  Upload Post -Case for Case 1  
 
March  Assignment  1st Page Narrative  
  Date  Details  
April  Assignment  Discussion Case: Reliaquest University  
 
April  Assignment  50% Draft  
 
April  Assignment  Upload Pre -Case for Case 2  
 
April  Assignment  Upload Pre -Case for Case 3  
 
April  Assignment  Upload Post -Case for Case 2  
Assignment  Upload Post -Case for Case 3  
 
May  Assignment  Final Discussion Case  
Assignment  Poster Presentation of the Discussion Case  
Assignment  Video Presentation of the Discussion Case  
 
 Assignment  Plagiarism Report  
 
 