Business Data Communications ISM4220  
Syllabus –Spring 2023  
  
            
Instructor:  Willard Baird    Office Hours:      
Office:      Monday:      
      Tuesday:      
Instructor’s 
Homepage:  Optional    Wednesday:      
Fax:      Thursday:      
Email:  wwbaird@usf.edu    Friday:      
Classroom:  Online          
Time:      By Appointment      
Credit Hours  3         
  
 COURSE SPECIFIC SECTION  
  
Course Prerequisite and Grade Requirements:  
  
Prerequisites: ISM3011   - GPA Requirements:   Undergraduate students who enter USF under the 
2001 -2002, or later, catalog are required to earn a grade of C, or better, in every undergraduate 
core class and an overall GPA of 2.0 for all undergraduate core classes.  
  
Course Description: Fundamentals of data communication, including network architectures, 
communication protocols, transmission standards and media access control methods.  
  
Course Objective(s):  
This course provides students with an understanding of the concepts a ssociated with data 
communications and distributed information systems. Students learn about network architectures, data encoding schemes, transmission media, communication protocols, 
transmission standards, and media access control methods. WANs, LANs, an d internetworking 
technologies are also explored. The course concludes with a brief introduction to network 
security & administration.  
Canvas  
Students are responsible for monitoring this site on a regular basis.   Canvas can be easily 
accessed from https:// my.usf.edu.   If you need a NetID or password reset, visit 
https://netid.usf.edu  
Required Text  
Michael G. Solomon, David Kim, and Jeff Carrell.  Fundamentals of Communications and 
Networking , 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Jone s & Bartlett, 2015  
  
Required Software and Hardware  
Access to stable internet connection  
Microsoft Excel (pivot table assignment)  
Microsoft Word or ability to save files as doc(x)  
PDF writer such as Adobe PDF or CutePDF (free)  
  
Students will need to acces s computers in the library or Student Success Center located in 
Dav 107 if personal computer issues prevent successful completion of assignments.  
  
  
Grading:   
Grade  >= <  
A+ 97.0%  100%  
A 93.0%  96.9%  
A- 90.0%  93.0%  
B+ 87.0%  90.0%  
B 83.0%  86.9%  B- 80.0%  83.0%  
C+ 77.0%  80.0%  
C 73.0%  76.9%  
C- 70.0%  73.0%  
D+ 67.0%  70.0%  
D 63.0%  66.9%  
D- 60.0%  63.0%  
F 0 60% 
  
  
Plus and minus letter grades will be assigned.  
Each student will receive his/her grade based on accumulated points.  
  
Course Policies:  
  
• You are encouraged to work ahead.  
• You must complete and submit all work by the Due Date given.  
• Additional notes and announcements will be posted on Canvas, please c heck frequently.  
• Any questions will be happily answered via email. Please be specific about which class 
and assignment you discussing.  
  
Drop Date:     
  
The last day to drop without academic penalty is January 17th 
  
  
  Key Leadership Skill(s) and Perspec tives Addressed in This 
Course:  
Written and Oral 
Communication  Information 
Technology Skills  Innovation and 
Critical Thinking  Ethics and 
Sustainability  Global and 
Multicultural 
Competence  
4(a) 5(b) 4(c) 5(d) 1(e) 
  
  
Written and Oral Communication:   Written assignments and lab reports are required to 
develop them communication skills.  
Information Technology Skills:  Students are introduced to packet sniffer tools. They learn how 
to capture and analyze data packets.   They will also desig n virtual networks using CISCO 
Academy Packet Tracer tool  
Innovation and Critical Thinking:  Students develop innovation and critical thinking in various 
assignments including class activities,  and lab tasks.  
Ethical and Sustainability:  The course includes  discussions of ethical issues in Data 
Communications. Requirements for ethical and socially -responsible behavior are included in the 
assignments.  
Global and Intercultural Competence:  The textbook makes limited reference to the use of data 
communication technology in other countries.  
  
 
Academic Dishonesty:  
  
See USF Policy on Academic Dishonesty and Disruption of Academic Process at 
http://www.usfsp.edu/catalog -grad/academic -integrity -of-students.htm  
  
Because of the University’s commitment  to academic integrity, plagiarism or cheating on course 
work or on examinations will result in penalties that may include a grade of “F” for the specific 
exam or course work and a grade of “F” or “FF” for the course.   Any incident of academic dishonesty w ill be reported to the dean of the college.   Definitions and punishment guidelines for 
Plagiarism, Cheating, and Student Disruption of the Academic Process may be found at the web 
address listed above.  
  
  
Students with Disabilities:  
  
Please notify your i nstructor if you have a learning disability or require special assistance with 
this course.   Confidential personal and learning assistance counseling are made available to 
students through the Division of Student Affairs.   Contact R. Barry McDowell 
(mcdowe ll@stpt.usf.edu) for more information.  
  
Religious Holidays:  
  
Students who must miss class or an examination due to a religious holiday should notify the 
instructor during the first two weeks of class  
  
         
  
Determination of Final Grade:  
Activity              Quantity                     Possible Points  
Quizzes                  10                                100 
Homework               03                                  75 
Network Labs           07                                 70 
Final Test                    1                                  55 
Total Points                                                 300 GRADED ACTIVITIES:  
Quizzes (10):  Quizzes are scheduled weekly to test the  conceptual knowledge  from the textbook 
chapters. Students need to read the assigned chapters every week and get ready for the quiz.  
1. Each quiz consists of  multiple -choice questions. They are timed quizzes. Students have 
20 minutes to complete a quiz. When the time is up and one has not completed all 
questions, your an swered questions will be automatically saved and submitted.  
2. They are open -book quizzes. However, if you are not prepared beforehand, you may not 
have enough time to scan through the book and search for answers to all questions within 
the 10 -minute time fra me. 
Homework (03):  Homework assignments including problems, hands -on exercises and 
discussions are provided for students to practice hands -on skills or to develop knowledge from 
class interactions.  
1. All homework problems and hands -on exercises are individua l practice exercises. The 
instructor will be available via various ways (Microsoft Teams, emails, phone calls, etc.) 
to help. However, DO NOT collaborate with your classmates. DO NOT seek help from 
outside of the class. Or you will receive a zero on the as signment.  
Course Policies: Class Communication :  Chapter instructions and materials, assignments and 
quizzes, project deliverables, and notices on changes to the schedule will be posted on the 
Canvas course website. Students are responsible for monitoring this site regularly and reading all 
posted announcements. Class -related email will be sent only to your USF email account; 
therefore, you will need to check your USF email account regularly and/or set forwarding to 
route incoming mail to another account.  
Late Assignments & Makeups : Late work will not normally be accepted. The instructor 
reserves the option to make exceptions based on the specific circumstances presented by the 
student, but point deductions for tardiness will be made for any work that is not  turned in on 
time.  QUIZZES CANNOT BE MADE UP  unless for documented medical reasons . 
  
                                    
  
  
Schedule/Outline:  
                                          CLASS MEETING SCHEDULE  
Note:   All assignments can be found on Canvas.    
Weeks  Chapter Readings  Assignments Due *      
Module01  
Lesson 1  
01/09  Ch 1 – Today’s Personal 
and Business 
Communication 
Requirements  First-Day Survey Due 
01/13 8:00 a.m.  
      
Lesson 2  
01/17  Ch 2 – Solving Today’s 
Business Communications 
Challenges  Quiz 1  
Due 01/23      
Lesson 3  
01/23  Ch 3 – Circuit -Switched, 
Packet -Switched  Quiz 2  
Due 01/30      
  
Lesson 4  
01/30  IP Addressing   
Home work Assignment 1   Due 02/06      
Module02  
Lesson 5  
02/06  Ch 4 – The Evolution of 
Ethernet  Quiz 3 -Due 02/13    Lab: Assessing 
the Physical and 
Logical Network 
Infrastructure  
Lesson 6  
02/13  Ch 5 –TCP/IP and 
Networking  Quiz 4 -Due 02/20  Lab: Analyzing 
Data Link and 
Network Layer 
Traffic with 
Wireshark  Lesson 7  
02/20  Ch 6 – Layer 2 Networking  Quiz 5 -Due 02/27  Lab: Analyzing 
Transport and 
Application Layer 
Traffic with 
Wireshark  
Lesson 8  
02/27  Ch 7 – Layer 2 VLANS  Quiz 6 -Due 03/06   Lab: Configuring 
a Layer 2 
Network with the 
Spanning Tree 
Protocol  
Lesson 9  
03/06  
  Ch 8 - Layer 3 Networking  
  Quiz 7 due 03/27  
     
Lab: Configuring 
a Layer 3 
Network with 
Dynamic Routing 
Protocols  
3/13 SPRING BREAK     
Lesson 10  
03/20  Ch 9 – Wireless Lan      
  
Lesson 11  
03/27  Internet of Things  
Cisco Network Academy 
Assignment -Home work  
assignment 2  Due 4/10   
    
Lesson 12  
04/03  Internet of Things 
Assignment -Continued  
    
    Module03  
Lesson 13  
04/10    Ch 13 –Configuration 
Management and Asset 
Control    
Quiz 09 - Due 4/17  Lab: Configuring 
an SNMP 
Manager and 
Alerts  
Lesson 14  
04/17  Ch 14 – Network 
Performance Management  Quiz 10 -Due 4/24  
  Lab: Monitoring 
and Assessing 
Network 
Performance  
Lesson 15  
04/24   Home Work Assignment 
3 Due 04/28   
Final Exam  
04/29 -05/04        
        
  
* The first -day survey is due the first Thursday at midnight (11:59pm).   
  
  
                   
Business Program Learning Goals (Skill(s) and Perspectives)  
Addressed in This Course:  
  
  
Course Policies:    
List all instructor requirements and expectations, including attendance policies, making up  
missed work or missed exams, preparation for class, and class conduct – including cell phone 
use. 
  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  Explain the evaluations and context.  
Example: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
  
1. Tech nology and Media  
  
Email : how it will be used, who will communicate with whom, who answers technology 
questions, expected response time, will you check it on weekends, etc.  
  
Canvas : Describe how you will use Canvas in the course, how often students should  expect to 
login, how team activities will be organized, due dates, policies on late participation, etc.  
Example: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If 
you need help learning how to perform various tasks related  to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may 
also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
  
Online Courses m ay be subject to the following:  
Electronic Plagiarism Detection:  Students are hereby notified that the instructor intends to use 
electronic plagiarism detection services in this course. By registering for and participating in this 
course, students consent to their work being sent to, analyzed by and stored in any plagiarism 
detection  service.   
Online Proctoring Syllabus Statement:  All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and 
video testing requirements to determin e if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the 
course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or 
withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course  may require online proctoring. Therefore, students 
will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or 
quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the 
student and that  recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any 
person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select 
private spaces for the testing.   
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for 
recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure  that any recordings do not 
invade any third party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of 
any third party privacy concerns.   Setup information will be provided prior to taking the 
proctored exam. For additional informa tion about online proctoring you can visit the  online 
proctoring student FAQ  (Links to an external site.) . 
  
Panopto:  If your course uses lecture -capturing, mention that is will be in use and that student 
voices may be heard in the captured content.  
  
Laptop Usage:  Describe your policies for using laptops throughout your course. Whether you 
dislike the use of laptops during your lecture, or whether you encourage using a laptop during 
discussion, feel free to state it here.  
  
Classroom Devices:  Describe your policies for using calculators, tape recorders, other audio & 
technology devices for your course.  
  
Phone Usage: Describe your policies for student p hone use in class, including texting or surfing 
the Internet. If you are using social media for a “backchannel” conversation, mention it here. If 
you would prefer that students not take photos/video/audio recordings of you, or of the 
whiteboard notes at th e end of the class, state so here.  
Cell phones, pagers or any other communication device brought to class, should be turned off  
and not used in the classroom. These devices are not to be used during an exam.    
Turnitin.com:  If you are using this plagiarism -detection service, it is recommended that you 
clearly state so on the syllabus. In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to 
include personal identifying information, such as name, in the body of the document. Turnitin 
provides an originality report letting the instructor know how much of the assignment is original.  
  
Example: In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web 
sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic 
format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that 
states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at 
this process visit http://www.turnitin. com. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in 
class.  
  
University Policy  
  
Honor System:  Under the USF Honor System, each student is expected to observe complete 
honesty in all academic matters.   Violation of the Honor System will be referred to t he Honor 
Council.   Note:   The following are violations of the Honor Code:   Copying another student’s 
homework, signing another student’s name on the attendance roster, copying another group’s 
disk or written work, using another student’s computer disk to p rint out your assignment, 
copying another student’s file onto your disk, and misrepresenting a reason for a missed 
exam.   Punishment for academic dishonesty may result in an automatic “F” or “FF” in the course 
or action that may result in suspension or exp ulsion. See the USFSP Policy on Academic 
Integrity of Students at page 51 of the following 
links:   http://www.usfsp.edu/catalog/files/2017/12/USFSP -2017 -18-Undergraduate -Academic -
Catalog.pdf   (for undergraduate)  
  
http://www.usfsp.edu/catalog/files/2018/01/USFSP -Graduate -Catalog -2017 -18.pdf   (for 
graduate)  
  
Students with Disabilities:  Please notify your instructor by the second class meeting if you have 
a learning disability or require special assistance with this course.   Confidential personal and 
learning assistance counseling are made available to students  through the Division of Student Affairs.  Contact R. Barry McDowell, St. Petersburg Campus: Student Life Center (SLC 1203) 
(727) 873 -4990, ( mcdowell@usfsp.edu ) for more information. Students who need extended time 
on exams need to inform the Disabilities Office at least seven (7) school days (Monday -Friday) 
in advance of the scheduled exam, so that the Disabilities Office has adequate time to inform me.  
Religious Observances: Students who anticipate th e necessity of being absent from class due to 
the observance of a major religious holiday must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in 
writing, by the second class meeting.  
  
Copyrights:   Students who wish to audiotape lectures can do so with d irect permission from the 
professor, but tapes and lectures may not be sold. No videos or photos can be taken in the 
classroom!     
  
Incomplete Grades:  An “I” grade may be given to an undergraduate student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work (n ormally 30% or less) is incomplete due to circumstances beyond 
the control of the student and only when a student is otherwise earning a passing grade.   “I” 
grades are to be used only in emergency situations and cannot to be used as a means of avoiding 
a poor grade. Normally these are only for medical emergencies and require a signed letter from a 
medical professional that the student was prevented from attending class. The student must 
petition the professor before the week of final exams for a grade of “I ” to be given.  
  
Grade Forgiveness: Undergraduate grade forgiveness is limited to three USFSP courses with 
no more than one repeat per course.   Accounting majors can use the forgiveness only once in 
upper level accounting courses. There is NO grade forgive ness at the Graduate Level.  
  
S/U GRADES:   State whether this course can be taken on an S/U basis.  
  
WITHDRAWAL:  No “W” grades can be obtained after the official drop or withdrawal date 
(indicate date for each semester). All students enrolled as of the wit hdrawal date (indicate date 
for each semester), will receive a letter grade of A, B+, B, C, C+, C, D+, D or F.  
  
ELECTRONIC PLAGIARISM DETECTION:  Students are hereby notified that the instructor 
intends to use electronic plagiarism detection services in th is course. By registering for and participating in this course, students consent to their work being sent to, analyzed by and stored 
in any plagiarism detection  service.   
  
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS:   In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for 
USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of 
instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Elluminate, Skype, and 
email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of th e student to monitor 
Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and 
department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.  
  
BOMB THREAT OR OTHER DISRUPTION:   All scheduled classes will be held in an 
alternate room in the case of a bomb scare, fire alarm or other disruption. Students will gather 
outside of the classroom building at a designated area in the parking lot so that an alternative 
room may be announced.  
  
Supporting Crime Victims and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA):  
If you are the victim of a crime, USFSP is ready to assist you in the manner that you determine is 
best for you. Please know that, as a USF employee, I am obligated by Federal law to 
immediate ly report any incidents of sexual assault, dating & domestic violence, and stalking 
relayed to me – including the victim’s name – to the USFSP Police Department and/or the 
USFSP Dean of Students. If you desire confidentiality, there are campus and communit y 
resources listed below that will respect that decision. (cont’d)  
  
  
Confidential Resources  Non-Confidential Resources  
USFSP Victim Advocacy Services  
Available: 24hrs/7days  
Tel: 727 -698-2079  USFSP Police Department  
Tel: 727 -873-4140 or  
USFSP Wellness C enter (SLC 2000)  
M/T/W/F: 8am – 5pm  
Thurs: 9:30am – 5pm  Dean of Students & Director of Residence Life 
& Housing : Dr. Jacob Diaz  
PNM  Tel: 727 -873-4422  Tel: 727 -873-4823  
deanofstudents@usfsp.edu  
Rape Crisis Center of Pinellas County  
Tel: 727 -530-7273  
PEMHS: 727 -541-4628  Pinellas County Sheriff  
Tel: 727 -582-6200 or 911  
  
  St. Petersburg Police Department  
Tel: 727-893-7780 or 911  
  
If you are not sure what to do , you are strongly encouraged to contact the USFSP Victim 
Advocate to confidentially explore your options including: Injunctions & Protective Orders on 
campus; Changes in Accommodations, Living Arrangeme nts, Class Schedules, & 
Transportation; Assistance with Academic Issues – missed classes, late assignments, etc.    
  
  
 