John JermierProfessorjermier@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3214Phone: (813) 974-1752Fax: (813) 905-9964VitaJohn M. Jermier is a professor in the School of Information Systems and Management
               where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in organizational theory and behavior,
               corporate environmentalism and environmental policy, and the measurement of organizational
               change and effectiveness. He also serves as a professor of sustainable enterprise
               research in the Patel College of Global Sustainability.Jermier's current research is focused on environmental sustainability, the "greening"
               of organizations, critical management studies, and qualitative and quantitative methods
               for organizational research.  His most recent publication is “Theoretical perspectives
               on organizations and organizing in a post-growth era” (Organization, 2020). Jermier
               has authored or co-authored numerous articles, book chapters, books, research monographs
               and other scholarly works and he has served on the editorial review boards of several
               of the field’s top journals. He is the founding co-editor and past-co-editor of the
               high impact journal,Organization & Environment.He earned a PhD, an MBA and a master's degree from The Ohio State University and a
               bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin.TeachingMAN 6055 Organizational Behavior and LeadershipMAN 6746 Designing Sustainable EnterpriseMAN 4743 Response of Business to Global Environmental ProblemsResearchJermier, J. et al. (2020), “Theoretical Perspectives on Organizations and Organizing
                     in a Post-Growth Era.Organization, 27(6):  1-21.Nicolopoulou, K., Karatas-Ozkan, M., Janssen, F. & Jermier, J., (2017), "New Research
                     Directions for Sustainable Entrepreneurship,"Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation. London: Routledge. Pp. 5-21.Jermier, J.M. & Forbes, L.C., (2016), "Metaphors, Organizations and Water: Generating
                     New Images for Environmental Sustainability,"Human Relations, 69 (4): 1001-1027.Jermier, J.M., (2013), "Corporate Environmentalism and the Greening of Organizations:
                     General Introduction to the Six Volumes,"Corporate Environmentalism and the Greening of Organizations. London: Sage Publications. Pp. xxxi-liv. (Vol. 1).Jermier, J.M. & Koehler, J.  “Effects of a Lean and Green Management Initiative on
                     the Culture of the United States Air Force.”  Research Grant, US Air Force Office
                     of Scientific Research, $775,000.ServiceEditorial review board member,Administrative Science Quarterly,Human Relations,Organization,Organization Science,Leadership Quarterly,Leadership,the Journal of Management,the Journal of Workplace Rights,Journal of Management and Sustainability,Sustainability Journal, among others.Founding Editor and Editor or Co-Editor,Organization & EnvironmentMember, Academy of Management; International Association for Business and Society;
                     American Psychological Association; American Sociological Association; European Group
                     for Organization StudiesChair, Professional Development Workshops, Organizations and the Natural Environment;
                     Social Issues in Management, Critical Management Studies of the Academy of Management