Balaji PadmanabhanDirector, Center for Analytics and CreativityProfessorbp@usf.eduRoom: CIS 2071Phone: (813) 974-6763Fax: (813) 974-6749VitaBalaji Padmanabhan is the Anderson Professor of Global Management, the director of
               the Center for Analytics & Creativity and a professor in the School of Information
               Systems and Management. Previously, he served as the chair of the department. He has
               created courses and taught undergraduate, MBA/MS, and doctoral courses in areas related
               to AI and machine learning, business/data analytics and computational thinking.He designs analytics-driven algorithms to solve business problems. Padmanabhan's specific
               interests and expertise include AI and machine learning, designing analytics-driven
               algorithms for business applications, managing analytics, building and evaluating
               predictive models, patterns discovery in data, business value of analytics, enabling
               citizen data science and applications of analytics in churn, health care, recommender
               systems, fraud detection and elections. He often works with industry partners on applied
               research and has worked with more than twenty firms on various machine learning and
               analytics initiatives, often with a focus on innovative applications to drive business
               value.His research has been published in the premier computer science and business journals
               and conferences including ACM KDD Proceedings, ACM RecSys, ACM Transactions on MIS, Big Data, Decision Support Systems, IEEE Transactions on
                  Knowledge and Data Engineering, Information Systems Research,theINFORMS Journal on Computing, JAMIA, Management Science and MIS Quarterly. He serves on the editorial board and program committees of many leading academic
               journals and conferences in the field.Padmanabhan earned a PhD from the Stern School of Business at New York University
               and a B.Tech in computer science from Indian Institute of Technology Madras.TeachingISM 6136 - Data Mining (introductory course on machine learning with business applications
                     for MBA/MS students)ISM 6543 – Data Science Programming (graduate machine learning course using the Python
                     ecosystem)ISM 6930 – Computational Methods in IS Research (doctoral course)Recent Research"Can Cost Transparency in Recommendations Reduce Healthcare Costs? The Role of TimePressure and Cost-Framing," (2019), L. Bouayad, Padmanabhan, B. and Chari, K., Forthcoming
                  inMIS Quarterly."Audit Policies under the Sentinel Effect: Deterrence-Driven Algorithms," L. Bouayad,Padmanabhan, B. and Chari, K., (2019),Information Systems Research, Volume 30, Issue 2, pp. 466-485."Taming Complexity in Search Matching: Two-Sided Recommender Systems on DigitalPlatforms," forthcoming, O. Malgonde, H. Zhang, B. Padmanabhan and M.Limayem, Forthcoming
                  inMISQuarterly."Machine Learning for Psychiatric Patient Triaging: An Investigation of Cascading
                  Classifiers," (2018), V. Singh, Shrivastava, U., Bouayad, L., Padmanabhan, B., Ialynytchev,
                  A. and Schultz, S.,Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association (JAMIA), Volume 25, Issue 11, 1, Pages 1481–1487“Predicting Presidential Election Outcomes from What People Watch,” (2017), A. Barfar
                  and Padmanabhan, B.,Big Data,5(1): 32-41.SERVICEPadmanabhan's professional service includes work on the program committees of several
               academic conferences such as WITS, ICIS, ACM KDD and IEEE ICDM. He has served on the
               editorial boards of the premier journals in the discipline includingInformation Systems Research,theINFORMS Journal on Computing, Management Science, MIS Quarterly, Big DataandACM Transactions on MIS.