Robert HookerAssociate Professorrobert75@usf.eduRoom: BSN 2401EPhone: 813-974-6178VitaRobert Hooker is an associate professor in the School of Marketing and Innovation
               and an associate with the Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management & Sustainability. 
               He teaches courses in supply chain management, market research and marketing strategy
               and was the recipient of an Outstanding Faculty Award in 2017 and the USF Gold Medal
               in 2018.His research focuses on supply chain management. Past and current research is on sustainable
               supply management, omni-channel, supply chain resilience and business continuity,
               open innovation and reverse logistics. He has been published in numerous academic
               journals, including theJournal of Supply Chain Management,theJournal of Purchasing & Supply ManagementandMIS Quarterly Executive, among others. His research is carried out in partnership with globally recognized
               companies and he regularly speaks to research and industry audiences. He was accepted
               to the Fulbright Scholar specialist program in 2016, becoming the first assistant
               professor from the Muma College of Business to earn this award.Hooker earned a PhD in business administration, an MBA in marketing and supply-chain
               management and a bachelor's degree in finance and risk management and insurance, all
               from Florida State University. He taught at Florida State University, prior to joining
               USF, and he previously worked in corporate finance and marketing. He is a member of
               CSCMP and ISM.TeachingMAR 6936 Supply Chain ManagementMAR 6816 Marketing StrategyMAR 3613 Market ResearchRECENT Research“Beyond Gaming: Linking Flow, Brand Attitudes, and Purchase Intent in Realistic and
                  Emergent Three-Dimensional Virtual Environments,” forthcoming,Information Technology & People., with Wasko, M.W., Paradice, D.B., Teigland, R., Hofacker, C."E-Lance Enabled Network Exchanges within Supply Chains: The Influence of Network
                  Governance and Social Control Mechanisms on Network Success," (2016),International  Journal of Information Systems and Supply Chain Management, with Lewis, C.C.; Wasko, M.W.; Worrell, J.L. and Yoon, T."Purchasing and Supply Management Sustainability: Drivers and Barriers," (2012),Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, with Giunipero, L.C. and Denslow, D."Getting Your Customers' Ideas to Work for You: Building User Innovation Communities,"
                  (2012),MIS Quarterly Executive, with Di Gangi, P.M. and Wasko, M."A Decade of SCM Literature: Past, Present, and Future Implications," (2008),Journal of Supply Chain Management, with Giunipero, Joseph-Mathews, S.; Yoon, T. and Brudvig, S. (One of the Top 10
                  most downloaded articles in theJournal of Supply Chain Management.)ServiceAssociate, Monica Wooden Center for Supply Chain Management & SustainabilityMember, editorial review team -Journal of Supply Chain ManagementReviewer –Journal of Business Logistics, Journal of Cleaner Production, European Journal of
                     Information Systems, among othersMember, select college and university level committees (Graduate, AACSB, CES)Participant, American Cancer Society's Relay for Life, various scholarship organizations,
                  among others