Matthew MullarkeyProfessor of InstructionDirector, DBA Programmmullarkey@usf.eduRoom: CIS 1040Phone: (813) 974-4653VitaMatthew Mullarkey is a Professor of instruction in the School of Information Systems
               and Management and the director and co-founder of the Doctor of Business Administration
               program at the Muma College of Business at the University of South Florida.Mullarkey is a Fulbright core research scholar, an extraordinary associate professor
               in the Centre for Applied Research in Management at the North West University (South
               Africa), an IIIS interdisciplinary Fellow, a member of the advisory board for the
               Innovation Value Institute at the National University of Ireland Maynooth, a member
               of the governance committee for the USF Institute of Applied Engineering, and a Fellow
               at Tampa General Hospital Research (the academic medicine partner for USF).Mullarkey has been awarded more than $7 million as the principal investigator in research
               and industry partnership grants and $4.25 million as PI or co-PI on competitive NSF
               grant funded research.He has more than 30 peer reviewed articles in leading journals and conference proceedings
               includingINFORMS Journal on Computing,European Journal of Information Systems,IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management,Information Systems Frontiers,Communications of the Association for Information Systems,Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching & Learningand CORS/INFORMS International Conference, International Conference on Design Science
               Research in Information Systems, International Conference on Secure Knowledge Management
               in Artificial Intelligence, International Conference on Data Mining Workshops, and
               ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, among others.Mullarkey’s research is centered on the guided, emergent design of innovative technology
               systems, processes, products and services across disciplines and industries including
               healthcare, manufacturing, technology, defense, energy, nonprofit and government.
               Recent research topics include innovations and applications for healthcare, smart
               cities, IoT, cybersecurity, data science, entrepreneurship, case research and technology
               education.Mullarkey earned a PhD Business Administration (Information Systems) from the University
               of South Florida, an MBA (International Operations) from the University of South Carolina,
               a master's degree in Systems Management (Information Systems) from the University
               of Southern California, and, a bachelor's degree in Engineering from the United States
               Military Academy (West Point).Prior to joining the faculty of the USF Muma College of Business, Mullarkey spent
               30 years in industry as a CEO, COO, CFO, EVP Operations, managing director, and general
               manager primarily in the automotive, medical device, and engineered materials industries
               in Fortune 1000 and start-up businesses. He is a serial entrepreneur having started
               and exited four businesses in diverse areas of technology, home services, and management
               consulting. Mullarkey has been an executive-in-residence for a major private equity
               firm focused on healthcare and a named officer at two NYSE listed Fortune 1000 medical
               device firms. Early in his career, Mullarkey was a decorated officer in the U.S. Army
               awarded the meritorious service medal, the Ranger Tab, and the Airborne, Pathfinder,
               Jungle Warfare and Expert Infantryman Badges.TeachingMullarkey has been co-Major Professor for 12 doctoral candidates, a doctoral dissertation
               committee member for an additional 14 doctoral candidates, and an external evaluator
               for multiple international doctoral candidates. Mullarkey teaches successfully at
               all levels of student education including undergraduate, graduate masters, and doctoral
               coursework.Current Courses:GEB 6930 Case Method Publication (DBA)GEB 6930 Interview Research Methods (DBA)MAR 7931 Research Article Publication (DBA)ISM 6155 Enterprise Information Systems (EMBA)ISM 6021 Management Information Systems (MBA)ResearchRay, A., Jank, W., Dutta, K., Mullarkey, M. (2023) An LSTM+ Model for Managing Epidemics:
                     using population mobility and vulnerability for forecasting COVID-19 hospital admissions.INFORMS Journal on Computing, 35(2), 440-457.Wallace, J., Mullarkey, M., Hevner, A. (2023) Patient health locus of control: the
                     design of information systems for patient-provider interactions,European Journal of Information Systems, 32(1). 52-63.Tarpey, R.J., Mullarkey, M.T.  (2023) Engineering Innovative Clinical Resource Management
                     By Design: A guided Emergent Search Through a Complex Adaptive System of Systems,IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 70(3). 927-941.Daniel, C., Agrawal, M., Mullarkey, M. (2023) RQ Labs: a cybersecurity workforce skills
                     development framework,Information Systems Frontiers, 25(2). 431-450.Mullarkey, MT (2023) Global National Security Institute Summit, 8th Great Power Competition
                     Conference, “Industry Use and Advancement of UAVs” Panel Moderator, Tampa, FL, 28
                     September 2023.view moreMullarkey, MT (2023) United Nations General Assembly 78, Digital Health Symposium,
                        “First Principles of Transformative Digital Healthcare Adoption”, Manhattan, NY, 27
                        September 2023.Mullarkey, MT (2023) Design Science Research Conference (DESRIST), Panel Session “Engaging
                           with Practitioners in the Conduct of Design Science Research”, Pretoria, SA, 2 June
                           2023.Mullarkey, MT (2023) Special Operations Command (SOCOM) “Dragon’s Lair” Innovation
                           Pitch Competition, USF Discovery and Innovation Center, Tampa, FL, 29 March 2023.Mullarkey, MT (2023) “Hope for AI in Healthcare”, Florida Blue/Guidewell/USF Data
                           and AI for Health and Wellness, Inaugural Forum on AI and Data for Healthcare, Guidewell
                           Innovation Center, Orlando, FL, 26 January 2023.Mullarkey, MT (2023) “Healthcare Leadership through Operations Management”, USF-TGH
                           People Development Institute, Inaugural Business of Healthcare, USF Health Surgery
                           Resident Leadership Program, Tampa, FL, 16 January 2023.Kutz, D., Cumbie, B., Mullarkey, M. (2022) Incorporating the student perspective in
                           designing a virtual team classroom environment: an elaborated action design science
                           research approach.Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching and Learning. Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print.Mullarkey, M. T. (2021) Book Chapter: Divide and Conquer: an innovative methodology
                           to case writing with impact.Case Method for Digital Natives, Eds A.K. Dey & S. Mishra. Bloomsbury India, New Delhi, India.185-212.Emmanuel, E., Cudden, J., Mullarkey, M. (2021). When smart bins meet a smart city.Muma Case Review6(14). 1-35.Guerin, M., Mullarkey, M. & Cudden, J. (2021). City telecoms potential: 5G challenges
                           for a smart city.Muma Case Review6(15). 1-30.Dowling, C.M., Mullarkey, M. & Clarke, S. (2021). A district approach to smart mobility.Muma Case Review6(13). 1-18.Hamilton, J. & Mullarkey, M. (2021). Enabling cities to harness the full potential
                           of the Internet of Things.Muma Case Review6(16). 1-25.Miller T.C., Morgera S.D., Saddow S.E., Takshi A., Mullarkey M.T., Palm M. (2021)
                           Neurological connections and endogenous biochemistry - potentially useful in electronic-nose
                           diagnostics for coronavirus diseases.Neuroimmunol Neuroinflammation, 2021:8.Mullarkey, M.T., Hevner A.R. (2019) An elaborated action design research process model,European Journal of Information Systems, 28:1. 6-20.ServiceCo-Principal Investigator on the 2018-Current NSF I-Corps Site Grant2016 recipient of the NSF I-Corps National grant as mentorUSF I-Corps Site CommitteeUSF I-Corps Site instructorInstructor, coach and mentor with USF Connect, Tampa Bay WAvE, Florida-Israel Business
                  Accelerator (FIBA), and the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce Startup ScholarsBoard member with the USF Institute for Research in Art Community Advisory Council,
                  the West Point Society Florida West Coastpast board member of Tampa Bay Tech, Speak Up Tampa Bay & the Tampa Bay Community
                  Network, and, the CEO Council of Tampa Bay