Kimberly Brooke HansenAssociate Professor of Instructionkbhansen@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateeRoom: SMC A313BVitaHer current research projects include using virtualization technologies to engage
               and educate visitors, implementing sustainability assessment and reporting platforms
               in tourism and hospitality, and aligning tourism sectors with the UN Sustainable Development
               Goals. Along with industry partners, she is developing a destination management plan
               for the State of Florida. She works as a consultant in the U.S. and internationally
               in Serbia on developing a country-wide sustainable tourism program. In 2022, she received
               a grant from the U.S. Embassy in Serbia to create pathways of scholarly exchange on
               tourism development in both countries. Her other research interests include regenerative
               agritourism, sustainable food systems, gender and diversity, and gastronomy tourism
               to promote sustainability.Brooke Hansen is paving the way for a more sustainable tourism industry — at home
                        and abroadHansen is a member of B Tourism and the Florida Agritourism Association. She is an
               academic affiliate at the Center for Responsible Travel (CREST) headquartered in Washington,
               D.C. She has been a featured speaker at numerous conferences and events, including
               the 2022 International Workshop on Agritourism, the 2022 Keep Florida Beautiful Conference,
               the 2022 World Tourism Day Forum, and the 2021 World Food Travel Association’s FoodTreX
               Research Summit. She served on the NFL Super Bowl LV Sustainability Subcommittee in
               2020. She was named in 2020 as a South Atlantic Woman to Watch by US Green Building
               Council and in 2021 was honored as a Shero by USGBC Florida at the Women in Green
               Conference. In 2021, Hansen was inducted into the CLEO Institute’s Leadership Circle
               for her work on gender, food system resilience, and climate justice.Hansen is a social scientist and received her PhD from the University of Arizona in
               anthropology, her master's degree from the University of Arizona in anthropology,
               and her bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of South Florida.TeachingHFT 4701 Sustainable Tourism PracticesHFT 4930 Sports TourismIDS 6216 Implementing the UN Sustainable Development GoalsIDS 6236 Sustainable Tourism Development: Principles & PracticesIDS 6237 Ecotourism and Sustainable Tourism Management