Muhittin CavusogluAssistant Professormcavusoglu@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateeRoom: SMC A313BPhone: 941-523-5284VitaMuhittin Cavusoglu, PhD, CHE, CHAE, CHTP, CHIA is an assistant professor in the School
               of Hospitality and Tourism Management at the University of South Florida on the Sarasota-Manatee
               campus. Before joining USF, Cavusoglu served as an assistant professor at the School
               of Hotel and Restaurant Management and as the director of the Hospitality Digital
               Transformation Lab at Northern Arizona University (NAU).Cavusoglu’s research interests are in the areas of information technology in hospitality
               and tourism, hospitality finance and accounting, event management, and online learning
               in hospitality and tourism.  To date, he has contributed over 50 academic publications
               including refereed journal articles, international conference papers and presentations,
               book chapters, and invited papers. Cavusoglu is the recipient of two “best paper”
               awards: one from the Academy for Global Business Advancement at its 15th Annual Meeting
               in Bangkok, Thailand in 2018, and a second at the Western Decision Sciences Institute
               Conference at its 45th Annual Meeting in Las Vegas, Nevada in 2016. He was also awarded
               the 2020 Emerald Literati Award for Outstanding Paper.Regarding his teaching experience, he has taught Hospitality Information Technology
               II, Revenue Management and Cost Control for Restaurants (co-teacher), Meetings, Events,
               and Conventions Industry Management (co-teacher), Catering Events, Introduction to
               the Hospitality Industry, Hotel Operations and Management (co-teacher) at the NAU;
               and Hospitality Information Systems, Business Communications, Event Management, Introduction
               to Hospitality and Tourism, and International Food and Culture courses at  USF's Sarasota-Manatee
               campus. He was also privileged to teach a Business Communications course for the University
               of International Business and Economics in China in 2021 and two courses (Introduction
               to Hospitality and Tourism and Introduction to Research) in Kazakhstan in 2018.Cavusoglu is an active member of academic and professional hospitality associations.
               He is currently serving as the managing editor for theJournal of Business Insightsand the associate editor for theJournal of Global Education and Researchand theJournal of Hospitality and Tourism Cases. He has been serving as the director of international conferences for the Association
               of North America Higher Education International, a nonprofit organization with more
               than 9,000 members from over 110 countries. In this role, he is responsible for organizing
               and arranging conferences in different cities around the world. He is also serving
               as the president of the West Federation CHRIE and a member of Meeting Professionals
               International and Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals.Cavusoglu earned his doctoral degree at USF in May 2019. His dissertation focus was
               online and self-directed learning and training of hospitality and tourism college
               students and industry professionals. He earned a master's degree in hospitality management
               from USF's Sarasota-Manatee campus. His thesis focus was technology applications in
               the restaurant industry. Predating these, he earned his bachelor's degree in tourism
               and hotel management from Bilkent University in Turkey, and a bachelor's degree in
               public administration from Anadolu University in Turkey.