Canned Responses  re Applicants and Potential Applicants  
 
Interest  
 
Response 1: Sent out when a potential applicant approaches us with questions about the MS 
BAIS program.  
Hi, 
Thank you for your interest in our program.   Can I ask you to look at the MS BAIS web site 
(https://www.usf.edu/business/graduate/ms -bais/index.aspx ) as it will answer many of the 
questions you will have?   The FAQ page may prove especially useful.  
Once you hav e done so, and there are questions remaining, please feel free to contact us again.  
 
Prerequisite Review:  
 
Response 1: Sent out when the applicant  has not registered for orientation yet . 
Hi, 
Thank you for your request to do a prerequisite check.  
However, a ccording to my records you have not yet registered for orientation, and I cannot do 
the prerequisite check until you do so. So, please register for orientation and send me an email 
once you have done so. I can then do the prerequisite check.  
Thanks.  
 
Respo nse 2: Sent out after we have completed the prerequisite review.  We obviously filter out 
the prerequisites that the applicant has met.  
Hi,  
Thank you for your request to do a prerequisite check.  
I have reviewed your transcripts and resume from your appli cation, and you have  the following 
prerequisites to complete:    • Systems Analysis and Design - - This has to be completed before you can take Advanced 
Systems Analysis and Design  
• Database Design -- This has to be completed before you can take Advanced Databa se 
Systems  
• Object Oriented Programming -- This has to be completed before you can take 
Distributed Information Systems  
• Economics  
• Financial Accounting  
• Statistics - This has to be completed before you can take Analytical Methods for Business  
You can find a l ink with courses you can take to satisfy the prerequisites at 
https://usf.box.com/s/9qoqve46ew4re0gdlrsrdmwts8enefdl  
It is of course possible that I overlooked something in either your resume or your transcript that 
would allow us to waive more prerequisites.   If so, please let me know within 30 days of receipt 
of this email. Please do so by responding to this message, a nd do not create a message from 
scratch.  
 
Response 3: Sent out if applicant has met all prerequisites.  
Hi, 
Thank you for your request to do a prerequisite check.  
I have reviewed your transcripts and resume from your application, and you met all prerequisi tes. 
I look forward to seeing you on campus.  
 
Response 4: Sent after an applicant has sent a certificate of completion for the assigned 
courses.  If the applicants still has outstanding prerequisites, we adjust the message to make 
them aware of the remaini ng prerequisites.  
Hi, 
Thanks for sending the certificates. You have now met all prerequisites and I look forward to 
seeing you on campus.  
 
 
 Registration for First Semester  
Before we can register students for the first semester, they must  
1. Complete the academic integrity course.  
2. Clear their insurance hold.  
3. Clear their immunization hold, and  
4. Send us their visa if they are an international student, or let us know that they are n ot. 
Response 1: Sent when we receive a student’s visa but they have not complete the other steps 
yet.  We again edit it to make sure it reflects which of the first 3 steps above they still have to 
complete.  
Hi, 
Congratulations on getting your visa and than k you for sending it to us.  
According to my records, you still need to complete the academic integrity course and clear the 
insurance and immunization holds. You can do so at  
www.SHS.usf.edu  
Once you have done so, ca n you let me know so that I can register you for the first semester 
courses.  
I look forward to seeing you on campus.  
 
Response 2: Sent when we receive a student’s visa and they have completed the other steps 
yet.  We again edit it to make sure it reflects which of the first 3 steps above they still have to 
complete.  
 
Hi, 
Thank you for sending us your visa and clearing your holds. I registered you for the first three 
courses. Can you check it out on OASIS and let me know if you see any problems?  
Although we strongly recommend against it, if you really want to take a fourth course, please let 
me know. We highly recommend that you take ISM 6124 Advanced Systems Analysis and 
Design.  
I look forward to seeing you on campus.  Response 3: In order to ensu re that we can control which courses students register for in their 
first semester, we place a COB hold on their records.  Although this is explained in the next 
steps email that they receive, we still get plenty of emails asking us about the COB hold.  
 
Hi, 
As explained in the next steps email, we use the COB hold to make sure we can register you for 
the first semester classes. We will remove it when registration for the next semester opens up.  
Han 
 