
Overview

The USF Classification & Compensation system is designed to provide consistency and
               equitable compensation for Administration, Staff, and Temporary positions.
Jobs are grouped into the broad categories of Faculty, Administration, Staff, and
               Temporary. Positions are then classified into Job Codes based on the duties and responsibilities
               performed. A Job Specification describes the features of each Job Code, which includes
               the official Job Title, Pay Band assignment, a description of typical work assignments,
               and the minimum qualifications needed to successfully perform the job.
Central Human Resources (CHR) maintains Job Specifications for Administration, Staff, and Temporary positions. The Office of the Provost maintains Job Specifications for Faculty positions, but they are available on the CHR website.
Requests for actions involving the classification and compensation of positions are
               reviewed and approved by the CHR Classification & Compensation team, the branch Human
               Resources offices, or USF Health Human Resources.  Please see the HR Service Centers page for contact information.
Here is a brief overview of the types of actions, links to required forms, and a summary
               of the procedure to submit the various types of requests:

Guidelines for Effective Dates




Proposed classification requests and/or pay actions should not be communicated to
                           employees until official communication of approval has been received from Central
                           Human Resources (CHR), branch HR Office, or USF Health HR.
Determine an appropriate effective date for the requested action by referring to the
                           following:
                           
                           
Effective Dates for Approved Actions
Pay Period start dates as displayed on the Payroll Biweekly Schedules







Commonly Used Forms




Classification/Compensation Request (CCR) Form
                           
                           
Create a New Position
Reclassify an Existing Position
Request a Pay for Performance (Increase to Base Pay)
Request a Special Pay Increase


Position Information Questionnaire
One-Time Pay for Performance


 




Classification Actions




Create a New Position




Complete the Classification/Compensation Request (CCR) form and the Position Information
                                    Questionnaire (PIQ) to document the business reason for the request and obtain budgetary
                                    approval.
Create a new position in GEMS.
Email the completed and signed CCR form and the PIQ to classcomp@usf.edu, the appropriate branch HR office, or Health HR.
After Classification & Compensation emails the completed approval for the new position,
                                    recruitment may commence. Upload the approval email to the Activities & Attachments
                                    section in Careers@USF.





Reclassify an Existing Position (Vacant or Filled)



Note: Salary changes associated with reclassifications are effected after HR notifies a
                                 department of approval. Pay changes due to reclassifications are not retroactive.

Complete the Classification/Compensation Request (CCR) form and the Position Information
                                    Questionnaire (PIQ) to document the business reason for the request and obtain budgetary
                                    approval.
Submit position changes in GEMS.
Email the completed and signed CCR form and the PIQ to classcomp@usf.edu, the appropriate branch HR office, or Health HR.
After Classification & Compensation emails the completed approval for the position,
                                    submit an ASF and inform the employee of the reclassification or begin recruitment
                                    for the vacant position. Upload the approval email to the Activities & Attachments
                                    section in Careers@USF.








Compensation Actions



Note: Pay actions received in Central Human Resources (CHR) by the appointment guarantee
                        date on the Payroll calendar are normally reviewed and processed for payment on the
                        corresponding pay date.

Special Pay Increase (Temporary or Permanent)



Refer to the Special Pay Increase document for further details.

Complete the Classification/Compensation Request (CCR) form to document the business
                                    reason for the request and obtain budgetary approval.
Some Special Pay Increase types will require the PIQ to be completed. Please refer
                                    to the CCR form to determine when the PIQ needs to be submitted with this request.
Complete the Appointment Status Form (ASF) for the request.
Email the completed and signed CCR form, ASF, and any required supporting documentation
                                    to classcomp@usf.edu, the appropriate regional HR office, or Health HR.





Pay for Performance



Refer to the Pay for Performance document for further details.

Increase to Base Pay (Recurring)




Complete the Classification/Compensation Request (CCR) form to document the business
                                             reason for the request and obtain budgetary approval.
Complete the Appointment Status Form (ASF) for the request.
Email the completed and signed CCR form, ASF, and any required supporting documentation
                                             to classcomp@usf.edu, the appropriate regional HR office, or Health HR.





One-Time Payment




Complete the One-Time Pay for Performance form to document the business reason for
                                             the request and obtain budgetary approval.
Email the completed and signed One-Time Pay for Performance form to classcomp@usf.edu, the appropriate regional HR office, or Health HR.










