
Student Consumer Information


                  				General Information About Our Institution
                  			
Learn about the associations, agencies and governmental entities that accredit, approve
                  and license our institution and programs. Read our articulation agreements and transfer
                  of credit policies posted in current catalogs. Check out how we protect the privacy
                  of student records under FERPA. Access voter registration forms.


                        					Accreditation
                        				 

                        					Articulation Agreements
                        				 

                        					Student Records Privacy
                        				 

                        					Textbook Information
                        				 

                        					Voter Registration
                        				 




                  				Student Life
                  			
Find out about student life and activities at our three campuses. Learn about the
                  services we provide to ensure that all aspects of university life are accessible to
                  all students. Use our Student Diversity Reporting Tool to learn more about the diversity
                  of our student body.


                        				Tampa Campus Life
                        			 

                        				St. Petersburg Campus Life
                        			 

                        				Sarasota-Manatee Campus Life
                        			 

                        				Students Accessibility Services
                        			 

                        				Student Diversity Tool
                        			 




                  				Career Services & Post-Graduation Data
                  			
View our career services by USF campus location to see what we offer our students
                  during and after enrollment. Peruse the types of graduate and professional education
                  in which our four-year-degree-program graduates enroll. Consult our annual Teacher
                  Preparation Program Report to learn more about how we prepare teachers for initial
                  state certification or licensure.


                        				Career Services: Tampa Campus
                        			 

                        				Career Center: St. Petersburg Campus
                        			 

                        				Career Center: Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        			 

                        				Post-Graduation Data
                        			 

                        				Teacher Preparation Program Report
                        			 




                  				Copyright Infringement Policies & Sanctions
                  			
Curious about our copyright infringement policies and sanctions, including computer
                  use and file sharing? Read our policies on how to appropriately use our information
                  technology resources and copyrighted materials as well as access Digital Media Copyright
                  Act (DMCA) information.


                        					Copyright Policy
                        				 

                        					Copyright Guidance
                        				 

                        					Appropriate Use Policy
                        				 

                        					Acceptable Use Guidance
                        				 




                  				Health-Related Prevention Programs
                  			
In an effort to safeguard the health, safety and well-being of all members of the
                  USF community, we have established a university-wide and campus-specific drug and
                  alcohol abuse prevention programs to assist our students in making healthy, responsible
                  choices. Read our vaccination policy and vaccination compliance guidance to learn
                  more about how the university complies with all state and federal guidelines requiring
                  vaccination of students.


                        					Prevention: Tampa Campus
                        				 

                        					Prevention: St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Prevention: Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 

                        					Vaccination Policy
                        				 

                        					Vaccination Guidance
                        				 




                  				Instructional Programs, Facilities & Faculty
                  			
Learn about the educational programs, instructional facilities and faculty and other
                  instructional personnel supporting our academic programs across USF. Learn about our
                  intercollegiate athletic program by viewing our annual Equity in Athletics Disclosure
                  Act (EADA) Report, which contains information about our intercollegiate athletic program
                  participation rates and financial support data.


                        					Tampa Campus
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Programs
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Facilities
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Resources
                        				 

                        					EADA Report
                        				 




                  				Security, Fire Safety, Crime Logs & Reports
                  			
Access our Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports (ASRs) for each USF campus and/or
                  location. These reports provide valuable insights into our security and fire safety
                  policies including our emergency response and evacuation procedures; crime prevention
                  programs; crime and fire statistics, and more.


                        					Tampa Campus ASR
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus ASR
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus ASR
                        				 

                        					USF Health South ASR
                        				 




                  				Student Financial Aid: Contacts & Policies
                  			
Contact a University Scholarships & Financial Aid Services (USFAS) advisor for assistance
                  in obtaining institutional and financial aid information. View the USFAS Code of Conduct
                  for education loans. Read our Refund Policy regarding federal financial aid if you
                  choose to withdraw from classes. Learn how violation of drug laws might affect a student’s
                  federal financial aid. Know your financial rights and responsibilities as a student
                  and more.


                        					Contact USFAS Advisor
                        				 

                        					USFAS Code of Conduct
                        				 

                        					Refund Policy
                        				 

                        					Penalties for Drug Law Violations
                        				 

                        					Financial Rights & Responsibilities
                        				 




                  				Student Financial Aid: Tools & Resources
                  			
Want to know what types of financial aid are available, including: grants, loans,
                  state aid programs, work, or employment opportunities? Use our Aid Program At-A-Glance
                  tool to learn more. Before you borrow money for your education, be sure to consult
                  our loan counseling information. Need an estimated price of attendance information?
                  Use our College Planning resources. Learn about private student loans, scholarships
                  and more.


                        					Aid Programs At-A-Glance
                        				 

                        					Loan Counseling
                        				 

                        					Price Information
                        				 

                        					Private Student Loans
                        				 

                        					Scholarships & Fellowships
                        				 




                  				Student Outcomes
                  			
Want to know our student retention rate, overall graduation rate (also known as "Student
                  Right to Know" or IPEDS graduation rate), or transfer-out rate? Look no further than
                  InfoCenter, our online reporting tool. It gives you access to this data and allows
                  you to customize the data views by gender/race/ethnicity, and more. Need to know these
                  rates for students receiving athletically-related student aid? Contact Athletics Compliance.


                        					Retention Rate
                        				 

                        					Graduation Rate by Diversity
                        				 

                        					Graduation Rate by Grant/Loan
                        				 

                        					Transfer-Out Rate
                        				 

                        					Athletics Compliance
                        				 




                  				State Licensure Disclosure
                  			
The University of South Florida is required to identify all academic offerings that
                  lead to or are associated with a specific professional license and/or certification
                  as a condition of employment. This information is available on a state-by-state basis.


                        					State-by-State Licensure Disclosure
                        				 


