
Reaffirmation
Introduction
University of South Florida ’s accreditation is reaffirmed every ten years by the
               Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC).  
To be accredited and reaffirmed, the University must demonstrate compliance with the
               SACSCOC Principles of Accreditation and prepare three distinct sets of documents that are as follows:

A Compliance Certification Report (CCR) documenting USF’s compliance with the Principles of Accreditation;
A brief overview/executive summary of the Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP), and
An Institutional Summary Form (ISF) and Substantive Change history.  

Reaffirmation of accreditation by the Commission on Colleges involves extensive evaluation
               of compliance by off-site peer review, an onsite review, and review by the Commission’s
               Board of Trustees.
For further information, please visit USF’s institutional accreditation website.

Timeline



September 2022
Establish USF Accreditation Steering Committee


September 2022
Establish USF Accreditation Core and Functional Teams


September 2023
Finalize Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) Topic


December 2023
Orientation Session for Steering Committee Members


January 2024 – June 2024
Internal/External Review of CCR


January 2024 – March 2024
Compile Compliance Certification Report (CCR)


September 6, 2024
Submit CCR, QEP, and ISF to SACSCOC


July 2024 - August 2024
Compile Institutional Summary Form


Fall 2024
Plan On-Site Visit/SACSCOC Off-Site Committee Reviews


November 5-8, 2024
SACSCOC Off-Site Committee Reviews


January 7, 2025
Submit QEP and Focused Report (if requested) to SACSCOC


February 18-20, 2025
SACSCOC On-Site Visit & QEP Defense


December 2025
Reaffirmation by SACSCOC




Contact
For all questions related to USF’s 2025 Reaffirmation, please contact accreditation@usf.edu.

USF Accreditation Steering Committee 
USF’s Accreditation Steering Committee is responsible for producing the documents
               required for reaccreditation by SACSCOC. 

Dr. Theresa Chisolm,  Vice Provost for Strategic Planning, Performance and Accountability (Chair) 
Richard Sobieray, Senior Vice President, Financial Strategy and Administrative Services and CFO 
Dr. Cynthia DeLuca, VP, Student Success
Paige Beles Geers, Chief of Staff, Office of the President
Jodi Adamchak, Office of General Counsel Representative
Dr. Allison Crume, Dean, UG Studies
Dean Todd Chavez, Dean, USF Libraries
Chancellor Christian Hardigree, USF St. Petersburg campus  
Dr. Brett Kemker, USF Sarasota-Manatee campus
Dr. Javier Cuevas, USF Health
Dr. Scott Besley, Faculty Senate Representative
Carole Post, VP, Facilities & Public Safety Operations
Dr. Robert Bishop, Dean, College of Engineering University, Council of Deans
Dr. Christopher Combie, Accreditation Liaison (Ex officio)
Cynthia Brown Hernandez, Deputy Accreditation Liaison (Ex officio)
Mary Kuka-Marchese, USF 2025 Reaffirmation Project Manager (Ex officio)


USF Accreditation Functional Team

Dr. Theresa Chisolm, Vice Provost for Strategic Planning, Performance and Accountability
Dr. Christopher Combie, Accreditation Liaison
Cynthia Brown Hernandez, Deputy Accreditation Liaison
Mary Kuka-Marchese, USF 2025 Reaffirmation Project Manager
Brandis Baines-Waiz, Academic Compliance Analyst
Joseph Boyd, Assistant Director, Program Review & Faculty Affairs
Rebecca Gibbons, Assistant Director, Accreditation/Regulatory Compliance & Assessment
Logan Feinberg, Assessment & Compliance Analyst

Learn more about USF’s institutional accreditation.

Creation date: 11/16/2022; Last updated: 11/16/2022This webpage is monitored frequently. Dates will only change if there are changes/edits
                  to the content on this page.
