
Majors
Click for larger chart

Accounting
Offered on all campuses and onlineThe objective of the baccalaureate program in accountancy is to provide students with
               accounting and business knowledge that will serve as a basis for careers in industry,
               government, non-profit organizations and public accountancy.
Advertising
Offered on Tampa campusThe advertising major in the Muma College of Business is unique in that it is a collaborative
               effort of the Zimmerman School of Advertising & Mass Communications in the College
               of Arts and Sciences and the School of Marketing and Innovation in the Muma College
               of Business. The major complements an existing advertising track in the mass communications
               major and provides students the opportunity to combine the aspects of advertising
               with crucial business skills.
Business Analytics and Information Systems
Offered on St. Petersburg and Tampa campusesThe business analytics and information systems major emphasizes the skills and knowledge
               necessary for business and data analytics, information systems development and support
               positions in both business and non-business organizations.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION
Offered on St. Petersburg and Tampa campusesA major in entrepreneurship is targeted toward those interested in the possibility
               of self-venturing or who may someday work in an entrepreneurial firm. Graduates will
               be prepared to  to work in management positions within high-growth, innovative firms
               or to take their own idea to market. This is an interdisciplinary program.
Finance
Offered on all campusesThe finance major provides a broad-based, analytical program for students anticipating
               a career in the management of both large and small organizations. Finance provides
               a good background for students seeking general careers in business.
GLOBAL BUSINESS
Offered on St. Petersburg and Tampa campusesThe global business degree provides students with the knowledge, skills and experience
               necessary for successful careers in the worldwide business environment. Graduates
               will learn about international business and the concentrations in one of the functional
               areas of business (finance, management, marketing, and business analytics and information
               systems) round out the program.
HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT
Offered on all campuses as a hybrid programThe bachelor's degree in hospitality management, from the School of Hospitality &
               Tourism Management, prepares graduates for global leadership positions in the hospitality
               industry through foundational knowledge of hospitality operations and experiences
               that develop critical thinkers who promote diversity, ethical responsibility, lifelong
               learning and community engagement.
INFORMATION ASSURANCE & CYBERSECURITY MANAGEMENT
Offered on all campuses as a hybrid programThe information assurance and cybersecurity management major provides students with
               the necessary skills in management of cybersecurity across a wide variety of business
               functions, including risk management, incident business response, and cybersecurity
               analytics with a strong rooting in ethics.
Management
Offered on all campusesThe undergraduate major in management prepares students to manage and lead all aspects
               of organizations. It also prepares students for graduate study in business and other
               fields.
Marketing
Offered on all campusesMarketing majors find career opportunities in a wide variety of diverse and dynamic
               industries. The marketing curriculum has been designed to prepare for specific marketing-related
               jobs in general marketing and branding, professional sales, product management and
               marketing research.
Personal Financial Planning
Offered on St. Petersburg and Tampa campusesThe bachelor's degree in personal financial planning concentrates on the analysis
               of personal financial data and the economic climate to prepare recommendations in
               the client’s best interest. The program examines professional issues in financial
               planning, including ethical considerations; regulation and certification requirements;
               written and oral communication skills; and professional responsibility.
RISK MANAGEMENT & INSURANCE
Offered on Sarasota-Manatee campusThe risk management and insurance major provides students with the knowledge necessary
               to manage the impact of risk and uncertainty upon people, businesses and society. It
               provides a broad based, analytical program for students anticipating a career in property
               casualty insurance, corporate risk management, or life/health insurance.
Supply Chain Management
Offered on Tampa campusThe supply chain management major equips students with the knowledge and skills needed
               to pursue careers in the supply chain industry. The major comprises the business activities
               required to get products to customers – from the time raw materials are extracted
               through production to distribution to customers and managing returns.

