
Monthly Webinars
october 2023


EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The University of South Florida's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a service program
               designed to assist employees with personal, family, or workplace concerns/issues.
               Learn more about our Employee Assistance Program here.
Viewing on a mobile device? Please rotate sideways for best view.

MONTHLY EAP WEBINARS BY MAGELLAN HEALTH  



Financial Wellbeing: Understanding Medicare

October 10

Click Here to Register12pm ET | 3pm ET




Health care costs are typically one of the biggest expenses in our budget. The Medicare
                           federal health insurance program can help to cover some expenses for those over 65
                           or for certain younger people with disabilities. But what if we want to retire before
                           age 65 or have access to an employer-sponsored health care plan after 65? This class
                           will review how your out-of-pocket expenses may go up or down depending on when you
                           retire and start receiving your Medicare benefits.




Leading an Anti-Inflammatory Lifestyle 

October 11
Click Here to Register



Join this webinar to:

Examine the connection between diet and mood
Define habits that promote an anti-inflammatory lifestyle
List foods that impact inflammation





Financial Wellbeing:Estate Planning: Financial Basics 

October 26
Click Here to Register12pm ET | 3pm ET



Many of us know we should have an estate plan, but we don’t know how or when to get
                           started. We will discuss the common components of an estate plan and explain how your
                           plan may change as you go through different stages of life. Lastly, we will cover
                           the pros and cons of hiring an attorney, versus doing most of the work yourself.




Interested in more news from Magellan Healthcare? Check out this month's NEWSLETTER.
Date Range: October 2023
Topic: Connecting your diet and mood| Did you know that certain foods help your brain produce chemicals that boost your
               mood, attention and focus — while other foods sap your energy? The medical field increasingly
               acknowledges the connection between food and mood, and you can make food choices that
               support better mental health. Learn more in this month’s newsletter.

Member newsletter for October


Mental Health & Wellness in the Workplace Badge/Certificate Opportunity
Sessions start June 12th. This important course, offered by the USF College of Behavioral and Community Sciences
               and The Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, is 100% online, free, and open to the public,
               with the opportunity to earn certification and digital badging (Please note that there
               is an additional cost for the certificate/badge option). Sessions will begin in June
               2023. Registration is now open!

Learn more about the Mental Health & Wellness in the Workplace Course

Mental Health & Wellness in the Workplace Course - Registration is Now Open! Please use this link to register.
This important course, offered by the USF College of Behavioral and Community Sciences
                     and The Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, is 100% online, free, and open to the public,
                     with the opportunity to earn certification and digital badging. Sessions will begin
                     in June 2023.
Learn to attract and retain top talent by creating a workplace culture that fosters
                     wellness and allows for the free expression of issues related to employees' mental
                     health, behavioral health, and addiction. This important course, offered by the USF
                     College of Behavioral and Community Sciences and the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, is
                     100% online, free, and open to the public, with the opportunity to earn certification
                     and digital badging. Sessions will begin on June 12, 2023.
Learn about:

The impact of mental health and wellness in the workplace
The changing climate of mental health and wellness in the workplace
Foundations and an introduction to terminology related to mental health and wellness
Identifying and approaching someone experiencing mental health, behavioral health,
                        or addiction issues
Trauma and suicide
Wellness

Now, more than ever before, it is critical that we not only build healthy organizational
                     cultures to protect our teams’ well-being but also recognize the impact mental and
                     behavioral health issues can have on a company's bottom line. For more information,
                     visit usf.edu/mhww.
Counseling is available when you find that you are having difficulty managing your
                     mental health on your own.  Please reach out for confidential assistance by contacting
                     your Employee Assistance Program by phone at 1-800-327-8705 (TTY 711) or by visiting Magellan Health Care Resources for helpful resources.      


RETIREMENT WEBINARS FROM OUR 403b vendors
The below webinar information is offered to all employees at USF and contains informative
               retirement information. They are presented by the two 403(b) providers, TIAA and Fidelity.
               There are options for both live and recorded sessions for your convenience. Click
               here to learn more about your voluntary retirement options at USF. 
Viewing on a mobile device? Please rotate sideways for best view.

MONTHLY WEBINARS BY TIAA


Quarterly economic and market update: understanding volatility and recent trends

October 4th

See available times & reserve your spot here.



Hear from our chief investment officer about challenges investors are facing and tips
                           on how to navigate them. This includes the state of the U.S. economy and key market
                           drivers, recent financial policies and politics and investing in public markets.



Invest for success: 5 principles you need to know

October 11th  

See available times & reserve your spot here.



No matter where you are in your career journey, this webinar can help you understand
                           the key principles of investing for retirement. This includes compounding, taxes,
                           choosing investments and more.



Generative AI Cybersecurity: New Insights and Actions to Strengthen Security and Boost
                           Productivity

October 19th

See available times & reserve your spot here.



Hear from cybersecurity leaders who will share the latest insights on AI cyberattacks
                           and steps professionals can take to avoid these crimes. This includes the latest higher
                           education and government initiatives focused on generative AI cybersecurity



Maximize your Health Savings Account (HSA): contributions are more powerful than you
                           think

October 25th

See available times & reserve your spot here.



HSAs can do more than cover current healthcare expenses. Learn how this unique fund
                           can support your needs over time. This includes tax advantages and what your funds
                           can be used for today and in the future.




Viewing on a mobile device? Please rotate sideways for best view.

MONTHLY WEBINARS BY FIDELITY


During October, Fidelity is offering a full calendar of daily webinars. Please access
                        the October calendar provided by Fidelity to locate and registrar for the webinar(s) of your choice. 



Some Topics may Include: 



Create a Budget/Build Emergency Savings
Five Money Musts
Get a Handle on Your Current Student Loan Debt
Get Started and Save for the Future You
Identify and Prioritize Your Savings Goals
Invest Confidently for Your Future
Investing for Beginners
Learn the Basics of When and How to Claim Social Security
Make the Most of Retirement Savings
Managing my Money: Budget, Emergency Savings, and Debt Basics
Navigating Market Volatility




Organize, Plan, & Own Your future
Making Financial Health a Priority
Prepare for the Reality of Health Care in Retirement
Preserving Your Savings for Future Generations
Quarterly Market Update
Retirement Basics (Saving for the Future You)
Tackle Debt and Understand your credit score
Take the First Step to Investing
Turn your Savings into Retirement Income
Your College Saving Options
Wise Choices for Your Old Workplace Savings Plan



