
Overview

    Free/$99 for certificate   •   14-Hour Certificate   •   100% Online   •   Open
                        to the Public



Three power players in the Tampa Bay business community joined together to educate
               business and community leaders on the essential practices and tools designed to increase
               employee diversity and to create a business model that embraces equity and inclusion. 
               The University of South Florida Muma College of Business offered a free, seven-week
               certificate program, sponsored by the Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil, that focused
               on ways organizations can create a more diverse workplace as well as address equity
               issues and foster inclusivity.  More than 135,000 people registered for the program
               and more than 63,000 earned the certificate and badge after successfully completing
               the seven-week program.
The Muma College of Business offers the certificate program again using the content
                  recorded during the initial session. While the content will remain available free
                  of charge, a modest fee ($99) is required to earn the Credly certificate and badge,
                  which will be awarded after participants pass all seven quizzes. The digital certificate and Credly badge can be displayed on LinkedIn. The certificate
               program also qualifies for 1.4 CEUs from the university.
View brochure

The program consists of seven two-hour modules, all pre-precorded from the spring
               session. Modules may be viewed at any time before December 31, 2023; those opting
               to pursue the certificate and badge must pass all seven quizzes by this date as well.
Participants will learn how building and growing a workforce that includes differing
               races, religions, ages, genders and sexual orientations, and persons with disabilities
               can not only improve broad society issues but can also help companies develop novel
               business practices, increase revenue, and improve performance. While the certificate
               is well-suited for human resources professionals and C-suite leaders, organizers designed
               the program for people across levels and across industries.

Enroll Now
If you are having difficulty enrolling, please read or watch this tutorial to see
                  how you can enroll in the course: PDF | Video

Where is your organization on the diversity, equity and inclusion journey?


1. Internalizing Diversity & Inclusion | Individual Self-Discovery
 


2. Transforming: You to We
 


3. Externalizing Diversity & Inclusion | Collective Action
 



View Modules
In the News

How to Move Workplace Diversity and Inclusion From Awareness to Action - Yahoo! FinanceSeptember 21, 2021 Duke Energy employees earn DE&I certificate from University of South Florida program
                  focused on inclusive change in the workplace
130,000 Sign Up for USF DEI Program - Diversity in STEAMJuly 29, 2021 Diversity has become more than a sentiment in the past several years; it’s a movement
                  that’s quickly adapting itself into public policy across multiple sectors of business
                  and education, especially in the STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and
                  Math) fields.
LISTEN: Thousands Sign Up for Free USF Course on Workplace Diversity - WFLAFebruary 28, 2021 More than twenty thousand people have signed up for a seven week business certificate
                  program designed to educate business and community leaders on increasing diversity,
                  equity and inclusion in the workplace.
USF, Lightning, Jabil team up to certify businesses for diversity and inclusion - Tampa Bay Business JournalFebruary 24, 2021 Three Tampa Bay powerhouses have teamed up to offer business leaders a chance to
                  learn more on fostering equity, diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil launch business certificate program focusing on
                        workplace diversity, equity and inclusion - Florida TrendFebruary 24, 2021 Free seven-week online certificate program will emphasize essential business practices
                  and initiatives designed to increase diversity among employees at all levels.
Tampa Bay Lightning, Jabil Inc., Muma COB to offer free online certificate on diversity,
                        equity, inclusion - The OracleFebruary 24, 2021 In partnership with the Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil Inc., the Muma College of Business
                  will offer a free certificate program focused on ways to cultivate a workplace that
                  embraces diversity, equity and inclusion.
The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil have partnered with the University of South Florida
                        Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program focusing... - Spot on FloridaFebruary 24, 2021 The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil have partnered with the University of South Florida
                  Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program focusing
                  on diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace.
USF, Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil launch business certificate program focusing on
                        diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace - News BreakFebruary 24, 2021 Three power players in the Tampa Bay business community have joined together to educate
                  business and community leaders on the essential practices and tools designed to increase
                  employee diversity and to create a sustainable business model that embraces equity
                  and inclusion.
Lightning, Jabil, USF team up on workplace diversity program - CatalystFebruary 24, 2021 The Tampa Bay Lightning and Jabil Inc. have partnered with the University of South
                  Florida’s Muma College of Business to offer a free, seven-week certificate program
                  that will focus on ways organizations can create a more diverse workplace as well
                  as address equity issues and foster inclusivity.
Bolts launch certificate program focused on diversity, equity & inclusion - NHL.comFebruary 24, 2021 In conjunction with USF and Jabil, the free seven-week online certificate program
                  will emphasize essential business practices & initiatives designed to increase diversity
                  among employees at all levels.

