
Student Comments


Mark Smyslov - Finance - Spring 2018
Advisors at the Collier Student Success Center helped me to develop into a competent
               candidate. I was able to have my resume professionally reviewed and became more confident
               for interviewing after going through mock interviews at the office. All of their assistance
               helped me to land an internship with Raymond James!

Maithilee Pagay - Finance - Spring 2018
The Collier Student Success Center has helped me to grow into a confident business
               professional. The advisors provided with me professional guidance on my resume, sharpened
               my interview skills, and provided excellent tips on networking. As a team, we harnessed
               my strengths and worked on my weaknesses, which allowed me to confidently apply for
               internships. All of the hard work resulted in an internship with Raymond James!

Stephanie Perez - MIS - Spring 2018
I visited the Collier Student Success Center to have my resume reviewed. The modifications
               made on my resume helped me land an internship with GTE!

Aimee Doucette - Marketing - Fall 2017
Without the help of the amazing people at the Collier Student Success Center, my internships
               with Foresters Financial and NBC's Universal Studios would not have been possible!
               They taught me how to build a strong resume, and assisted me in developing necessary
               interview skills. The advisors provided me with the essential tools to become the
               competitive candidate that I am today. If you are looking for guidance to enhance
               your job prospects, look no further than the Collier Student Success Center to develop
               a plan to achieve your full potential!

Brandon Wong - Finance - Fall 2017
The Collier Student Success Center is filled with knowledgeable and experienced individuals
               who helped me by vigorously practicing with me for hours until I was the perfect candidate
               for my internship position! Thanks to the Collier Student Success Center, I was able
               to capitalize on hundreds of opportunities that I would otherwise never had and held
               an internship at Citi!

Tapan Patel - Finance - Fall 2017
The Collier Student Success Center truly helped me to refine my resume and build my
               personal brand! Through their tremendous support, I was able to earn a 2017 Commercial
               Leadership Program Internship with Fifth Third Bank in Charlotte, NC!

Jiaxin Zhang - Accounting/MIS - Fall 2017
I am grateful that we have the Collier Student Success Center and its dedicated advisors
               and professional development programs. The overwhelming support from the college helped
               me secure a 2017 Summer Analyst position in New York City with Goldman Sachs. I am
               excited to see what the future holds!

Davin Beeler - Accounting - Fall 2017
The Collier Student Success Center staff helped critique my resume for the FBI's prestigious
               Honors Internship Program application. Because of their hard work, I now am an intern
               at FBI!

Katelyn A. Mobley - Accounting - Fall 2016
I am thankful for the wonderful advisors at the Collier Student Success Center! With
               their guidance I was able to create a resume which helped me land an internship which
               led to a job offer with Grant Thornton, LLP! I would not have this amazing opportunity
               without their help.

Diana Kanzler - MS in Marketing - Fall 2016
Collier Student Success advisers were very knowledgeable while helping me fine-tune
               my resume. I was explained what I needed to do in order to stand out from the crowd.
               The whole team was always available to answer all my questions.


