
About This Site
The University of South Florida (USF) website is governed by USF's Office of University Communications and Marketing. These websites are maintained by communications professionals across campus, with
               the goal of presenting relevant, timely and accurate information to the millions of
               people who visit the site each year.
Technology Notes
The USF website is built with web standards, including HTML5 and CSS3, and utilizes
               responsive design techniques.
Privacy
USF does not collect personal information about you when you visit an official USF
               website, unless you affirmatively choose to make such information available.
USF’s servers automatically recognize the domain and IP address from which you accessed
               the website and record related information such as: information about operating systems,
               screen resolutions and the volume and timing of access to enable interacting with
               the site more accessible, informative and enjoyable. This information does not result
               in the identification of your personal e-mail address or any other personal information
               about you.
Many pages within usf.edu use Google Analytics (Google Analytics Security and Privacy Principles) and Siteimprove (Siteimprove Services Privacy Policy) to help us understand how visitors use our sites. 
If you choose to share information with USF - either by sending a message or filling
               out an electronic form with personal information - USF will use the information only
               for the intended purpose. Some records containing personal information must be retained
               for a designated period of time in order to comply with Florida's record retention
               policies and Florida law.. Except as provided for herein, USF does not have an established
               practice of disclosing personal information in its possession to third parties without
               permission unless USF determines that such disclosure is in accordance with a contractual
               agreement with a service provider or is otherwise required by Florida or federal law.
               USF does not sell or disclose personal information for financial gain.
Under Florida law, emails sent to USF employees may be considered public records.
                  If you do not want your email address released in response to a public records request,
                  do not send electronic mail to USF. Instead, make contact by phone or in writing.
Please be aware that as a large, public research university, there are many websites
               within the usf.edu domain. This policy relates to those websites on which USF conducts
               its official business. Because USF encourages the development and deployment of technology
               in an environment of academic freedom, USF cannot ensure that all websites within
               the usf.edu domain are in strict compliance with this policy at all times.
USF reserves the right to amend these privacy terms at any time without notice. The
               privacy, record retention and public records obligations of USF are governed by applicable
               Florida statutes and U.S. federal laws only.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) gives students the right to
               refuse to permit USF to publish or disclose items of Directory Information pertaining
               to them. In the course of conducting official USF business, applicant and student
               personal information may be shared with third parties who USF determines have a legitimate
               educational interest in such information or where otherwise permitted by Florida and
               federal law.  For more details, and to view and control the level of disclosure permitted
               for the Student Directory Information, please visit the Office of the Registrar's website.
Accessibility
USF is committed to providing all individuals access to our digital resources. We strive
                     to make our web sites and digital content accessible by assuring compatibility with
                     assistive technologies.  
Our accessibility standard is: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA. 
Reporting a Digital Access Barrier
USF uses multiple content management systems and applications to deliver our services
               to the public.   If you are having difficulty viewing or interacting with any digital resource, you
               may report it to us by completing the Digital Access Barrier Report form.   Your concern will be reviewed in a timely manner. Appropriate campus subject matter
               experts will be consulted as needed. We will provide an initial response to your concern
               within 2 business days. We will resolve the complaint within 7 business days by removing
               the access barrier or implementing a remediation plan. 
