
Randy Dumm

ProfessorDirector, Baldwin Risk Partners School of Risk Management and Insurancerdumm@usf.edu Campus: Sarasota-ManateeRoom: C218Phone: 941-359-4245Vita
Randy Dumm is the director of the Baldwin Risk Partners School of Risk Management
               and Insurance within the University of South Florida Muma College of Business at USF’s
               Sarasota-Manatee campus.  Prior to joining the faculty at USF, he was a Professor
               and deputy department chair in the Department of Risk, Actuarial Science, and Legal
               Studies at Temple University.
During his time at Temple University, he also served as the director of the department’s
               doctoral program.  Before joining the faculty at Temple University, he was the Hold
               Professor of Risk Management and Insurance at Florida State University.
He received his doctorate from The University of Georgia and joined the risk management
               and insurance faculty at Florida State University in August of 1997.  He is a member
               of the Risk Theory Society and has been a visiting professor at Ludwig Maximilian
               University, Hannover-Leibnitz University, Fudan University, and Krems University of
               Applied Science, and he taught at the Vienna University of Economics and Business
               in 2004 as a Fulbright Scholar.  
Dumm’s areas of research interest include catastrophic risk, insurer capital structure,
               insurer distribution channels, demand for insurance, and insurance product performance.
                He has published in the Journal of Risk and Insurance, Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, Risk Management and Insurance Review, Geneva Papers- Risk and Insurance Review, Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Journal of Real Estate Research, Journal of Insurance Issues, Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance- Issues and Practices, Journal of Insurance Regulation, Journal of Real Estate Literature, and the Transportation Research Record,  and was a recipient of the 2014 Shin Excellence in Research Award from the International
               Insurance Society.
He is the immediate past-president and member of the executive committee of the board
               of the American Risk and Insurance Association and a member of the European Academy
               of Sciences and Arts.  He was a member and past Chair of the Florida Commission on
               Hurricane Loss Projection Methodology and served on the State of Florida’s Task Force
               on Long-Term Solutions for Florida’s Hurricane Insurance Market.  He also has served
               on the project team that produced the PSI ESG Guide for Non-life Insurance under the
               auspices of the UNEP’s Principles for Sustainable Insurance.
