
Living-Learning Communities

Living-learning communities, known as LLCs, are residential communities with a special
               emphasis on an academic major or interest area. The Bulls Business Network, an organization
               for high-achieving first-year students, provides an avenue for students to enjoy early
               admission to the business school with special registration and other opportunities,
               including two LLCs targeting business majors (students must be BBN members to live
               in the LLCs).

Bulls Business Community
Available on Tampa campusAll incoming freshman declaring an intent to major in business who are admitted for
               the fall semester are eligible for the Bulls Business Network. Students will receive
               a letter welcoming them to the college and inviting them to enjoy the benefits of
               membership in the Bulls Business Network. Members of the network are admitted directly
               into the college, enjoy special advising assistance and, most importantly, are eligible
               to join the Bulls Business Community.
Advisor: Carrington Price

LEADERSHIP HOUSE
Available on St. Petersburg campusLeadership House shows students how to tap into their own leadership potential and
               creates practical experiences for them to sharpen those abilities. While engaging
               in the common class with their LLC peers, students deliver presentations on significant
               campus and community projects, meet and learn from important leaders, and attend activities
               such as a ropes challenge course designed to reinforce concepts learned in the classroom.
Advisor: David O’Neill

Zimmerman Advertising Program
Available on Tampa campusThe Zimmerman Advertising Program is a unique program that prepares future leaders
               for the world of advertising, both nationally and internationally. The ZAP living-learning
               community is highly selective, allowing 34 students per cohort to earn a bachelor's
               degree in business advertising and also complete a master's degree in mass communications
               in one additional year.
Advisor: Carrington Price

