
St. Petersburg Campus Tours


Grab your sunglasses and get to know USF’s St. Petersburg campus. Take a tour that
               explores the programs, places and people of our sunny, harborside campus located in one
               of Florida’s culturally rich cities. You will also get the chance to learn more about
               the application process during an information session with an admissions counselor.


Student-Led Campus Tours

Our student-led tours give you an up-close view of our academic programs, student
                     organizations and waterfront recreation such as sailing and kayaking. You will hear from current students about what life is really like on our dynamic St. Petersburg campus! Your tour includes an information session presented by an Office of Admissions professional,
                     where you’ll get an overview of the university, admission requirements, scholarships
                     and campus life.
Before scheduling a visit, please keep the following in mind:

Dates: Tours are offered Monday-Friday and on select Saturdays. Tour space is limited to
                        provide our guests with a positive experience. Please have a few dates in mind before
                        making your reservation in case your first choice is not available. Tours are scheduled and posted periodically throughout the semester. If you do not
                           see tours posted for the dates you are hoping to visit, please check our website weekly
                           for updates.
Academic calendar: To get the best feel for the St. Petersburg campus, check our academic calendar and
                        visit when there are students on campus attending classes.
International students: Contact VisitStPete@usf.edu to add a meeting with an International Admissions Advisor to your tour.
Weather: The St. Petersburg campus is located in a subtropical climate and the tour is outdoors.
                        Doesn’t sound so bad, right? Even though most of our days are filled with blue skies
                        and sunshine, we ask that you please consider Florida’s heat, humidity and rain showers
                        as a possibility. Expect a lot of walking, so please dress accordingly, wear proper
                        shoes, and bring a water bottle.

Register Now
 



Extended Tours

Join us for an Extended Tour to discover what our academic programs can offer you
                     at the USF St. Petersburg campus. This fall, we're giving you an in-depth look at
                     the Criminology program and the College of Education. You will hear about life on
                     campus through a walking tour with a current student and attend a session about one
                     of these specific academic programs. You will also learn more about the application
                     process during an information session with an admissions counselor. 
Select a tour below to register!

October 13: Criminology | 10 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
October 27: College of Education: 10 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.

View this webinar to learn about the College of Education before your visit! 



Please keep in mind that the USF St. Petersburg campus is located in a subtropical
                     climate, and our tours are held largely outdoors. Wear comfortable shoes, sunscreen,
                     hats, sunglasses and temperature-appropriate clothing. And don't forget to bring a
                     water bottle to stay hydrated! It can get hot in St. Petersburg, especially on a walking
                     tour of campus.
Register Now
 



Self-Guided Campus Tours

Stroll our beautiful St. Petersburg campus on your own schedule with our self-guided
                     campus tour! Stops include the Nelson Poynter Memorial Library, the University Student
                     Center, the Harborwalk and Pelican Apartments. Please RSVP below to access the Walking
                     Campus Tour map. Print out a copy and explore campus at your own pace to get a first-hand
                     look at the incredible places where you’ll eat, sleep, study, learn and play.
To get the best feel for USF, check out our academic calendar and visit during the academic year when students are attending class. Please note that access to buildings is not guaranteed, and guests must print the
                        parking permit provided when registering or pay for parking at the self-service machine
                        in the St. Petersburg campus parking garage.
RSVP Now
Before Arriving on the St. Petersburg Campus

Prepare for the tour: This includes wearing comfortable shoes, sunscreen, hats, sunglasses and temperature-appropriate
                        clothing. And don't forget to bring a water bottle to stay hydrated! It can get hot
                        in St. Petersburg, especially on a walking tour of campus.
Pay for your parking: You may park in the Fifth Avenue Parking Facility, labeled FPF on the Walking Campus
                        Tour map. Once you arrive at the garage, purchase a timed space pass in the garage
                        at the walk-up permit machine located on the first level by the elevators. You may
                        also use the parking permit provided at registration.




Group Tours

Come join us for a group visit of our St. Petersburg campus. These visits are comprised of groups of 10-80 students. During your group tour, you’ll explore our academic facilities, a residence hall,
                     dining options, student support offices, recreation and other important campus stops.
                     Tours include an information session where you and your group will learn about admissions
                     requirements, financial aid, scholarships, campus life, dining and more.
 Scheduling Your Tour Due to the large volume of requests we receive for group tours, preference will be
                     given to high school groups and organizations serving high school students. Dates
                     and times are subject to availability. Please follow the directions below to set up your visit:

Submit your request at least four weeks prior to the requested visit date.
Please include your requested date(s) and time(s) in order of preference in the “Date
                        Preferences” field.
After receiving your request, a representative from our office will contact you. Submitting
                        a request does not guarantee a scheduled visit.
Should you wish to eat on campus with your group, we recommend our all-you-care-to-eat
                        dining hall. For information on hours and pricing, please visit Dining Services.

Submit Request



Virtual Tours

Experience the St. Petersburg campus, nestled between the stunning waterfront and
                     lively downtown, through our 360-degree virtual tour.
Start Tour



Disability Accommodations

Please contact the tour staff at VisitStPete@usf.edu at least five working days in advance for mobility assistance, visual impairment
                     assistance or American Sign Language interpreting.



Directions to Campus

 AddressUSF St. Petersburg Campus140 7th Avenue SouthSt. Petersburg, FL 33701Campus MapFrom the East

Take I-4 West to I-275 South.
Take exit 22 onto I-175 East toward Tropicana Field.
When the interstate ends, continue straight onto Fifth Avenue South and proceed to
                        Second Street. The Welcome Center is located at the corner of Fifth Avenue South and
                        Second Street.

From the West

Take I-75 South to I-275 South.
Take exit 22 onto I-175 East toward Tropicana Field.
When the interstate ends, continue straight onto Fifth Avenue South and proceed to
                        Second Street. The Welcome Center is located at the corner of Fifth Avenue South and
                        Second Street.

From the West

Take I-75 North to I-275 North.
Take exit 22 onto I-175 East toward Tropicana Field.
When the interstate ends, continue straight onto Fifth Avenue South and proceed to
                        Second Street. The Welcome Center is located at the corner of Fifth Avenue South and
                        Second Street.




Parking on Campus

Visitor parking is available in the Fifth Street Parking Facility. Single Day Permits may be purchased in the garage at the walk-up permit machine located
                     on the first level by the elevators. The permit machine accepts cash, Visa and Mastercard.
                     The price of a day permit is $5 and can be used on levels 2 through 5 in the garage. The Welcome Center is located at the corner of Fifth Avenue South and Second Street. Note: Please arrive at least 15-30 minutes prior to your scheduled visit to ensure
                        adequate time for parking and check-in.



Hotels and Accommodations

If you're visiting from out of town, there are a number of convenient hotels located
                     near our St. Petersburg campus. This is not a comprehensive list, so visitors are
                     encouraged to search for other hotels near the campus they are visiting. Many of the hotels listed for each campus below offer a special USF rate. If you choose
                     one of these hotels, state that you are visiting the University of South Florida to
                     access the special rate. Some also offer free shuttle service to the campus.
Comfort Inn & Suites Clearwater3910 Ulmerton RdClearwater, FL 33762727-573-3334 Courtyard St. Petersburg Downtown300 4th St NorthSt. Petersburg, FL 33701727-450-6200Complimentary shuttle to campus. Hampton Inn & Suites St. Petersburg/Downtown80 Beach Dr NESt. Petersburg, FL 33701727-892-9900 Hilton St. Petersburg Bayfront333 1st St SouthSt. Petersburg, FL 33701727-894-5000Located within walking distance from campus. Holiday Inn St. Petersburg West1200 34th St NSt. Petersburg, FL 33713727-322-0770 Ponce De Leon Hotel95 Central Ave NSt. Petersburg, FL 33701727-550-9300 St. Pete Beach Suites6801 Sunset WaySt Pete Beach, FL 33706727-360-7233 Staybridge Suites St. Petersburg Downtown940 5th Ave SouthSt. Petersburg, Florida 33705727-821-0777Offers a complimentary shuttle to campus. The Cordova Inn253 2nd Ave NorthSt. Petersburg, FL 33701727-822-7500About eight blocks from campus.



Explore St. Petersburg (and Beyond)

One of the best parts of attending USF's St. Petersburg campus is the location. Tucked
                     next to scenic Bayboro Harbor, we offer the amenities and advantages of higher-priced,
                     larger universities, plus the benefits of being a part of Florida’s newest Preeminent
                     State Research University. What else is there to love? This campus is in the heart
                     of dynamic St. Petersburg — an artsy, vibrant and welcoming Florida city. Plus, St. Petersburg campus students have access to the rich professional resources
                     afforded by our network of business connections. Our students tap into community and
                     industry relationships for valuable internship and practicum experiences to prepare
                     them for rewarding careers when they graduate. If you're visiting us from out of town, make a weekend out of it! For more information
                     on hotels, restaurants, things to do and more, check out Visit St. Pete Clearwater. Download our Gulf Coast Visitor Guide to make the most of your trip and explore everything
                     our Gulf Coast region has to offer, from sports to arts to nature. 
Download Guide 



Meet the Navigator Tour Guides



Aidan - Navigator CaptainMajor: Environmental ScienceClass of: 2024Hometown: Lake Worth, FLYou can find me at: The Nest or the University Student Center


ReniMajor: Marine Biology, with a minor in Environmental Science & PolicyClass of: 2024Hometown: Yorktown, VAYou can find me at: Hammocking at the waterfront


EmelyMajor: MarketingClass of: 2025Hometown: Roatan, HondurasYou can find me at: The Terrace at LPH



 



Contact the Campus Visitation Office

Email: visitstpete@usf.eduPhone: 727-873-4562Meet the Campus Visitation Team


 
