
Overview


View brochure
Apply to the BBC


All incoming freshman declaring an intent to major in business who are admitted for
               the fall semester are eligible for the Bulls Business Network.  Students will receive
               a letter welcoming them to the college and inviting them to enjoy the benefits of
               membership in the Bulls Business Network. Members of the network are admitted directly
               into the college, enjoy special advising assistance and, most importantly, are eligible
               to join the Bulls Business Community.
Those who are admitted for a summer semester must meet the following requirements
               in order to apply:

Completed a USF application
A high school GPA of at least 3.50 (weighted)
SAT score of at least 1210 (math + reading) with a minimum 570 math- OR - ACT score of at least 25 (minimum 25 math)

The Community
The Bulls Business Community is the best living-learning center on campus! In the
               business of living and learning, the Muma College of Business residential program
               is a way for BBN members to enjoy the benefits of a traditional on-campus lifestyle,
               plus extra perks:
Innovative Learning
Programs such as Improv Night provide fun, innovative ways to learn business skills.
Special Programs
BBC students enjoy exclusive programs such as "Business Etiquette," "Dress for Success,"
               "Résumé Building," and off-site company tours.  They also enjoy special networking
               opportunities.
Exclusive Access
Residents are treated to networking opportunities unavailable to most students, such
               as dinner with the dean or lunch with the dean's Executive Advisory Council.
Advising Privileges
Residents have academic advising in the hall, led by a designated Muma College of
               Business advisor.
Peer Opportunities
Tutoring is available as well as opportunity for group study since everyone is enrolled
               in similar courses.
A Great Backyard
Located in Poplar Hall, students have access to a dining hall and retail shop right
               on the first floor! Nearby are a variety of academic and social resources including
               the USF Library and the Marshall Student Center. The social scene is complete with
               300 student organizations, plays, concerts and sporting events. Things are always
               happening here!

