
Campus Safety



                  				AlertUSF Emergency Notification System
                  			
The University of South Florida maintains an Emergency Notification System (ENS) for
                  the purpose of issuing immediate notification to keep the USF community informed and
                  safe during an emergency situation. There are many components of the system that provide
                  redundant layers of notification to ensure the widest possible distribution of the
                  message, and these system components are regularly tested to ensure proper functionality.


                        				AlertUSF
                        			 




                  				USF Safe App
                  			
The USF Safe App is available as a free download through the Apple or Google Play
                  stores. Smartphone users now have the ability to make emergency calls and other helpful
                  functions to help improve your personal safety and security. USFSafe can trigger Mobile
                  BlueLight to alert Police. An interactive map helps you navigate on campus and the
                  toolkit contains a flashlight, alarm and more.


                        					USF Safe
                        				 




                  				Blue Light Phones
                  			
Blue Light Phones are emergency phones placed strategically throughout the campus.
                  On the Tampa campus there are ninety lights in total and each light serves a specific
                  radius. At night, the lights illuminate making it easy for a person in need to spot
                  them. The light pole houses a blue light phone which allows you to contact the appropriate
                  Police Department.


                        				USF Tampa Locations
                        			 

                        				USF St. Petersburg Locations
                        			 




                  				SAFE Team
                  			
SAFE Team provides students with free and safe travel on the Tampa campus from 6:30pm
                  to 2:00am (when classes are in session). Students can call or use the TapRide app
                  to have an escort accompany them to their destination by foot or golf cart, or wait
                  with them until their ride arrives. The SAFE Team is also trained to patrol the parking
                  lots and report any unusual behavior on the Tampa campus to the University Police
                  Department. 813-974-SAFE


                        					SAFE Team Website
                        				 




                  				Public Outreach
                  			
Throughout the year USF conducts various outreach projects to increase awareness among
                  the faculty, staff and students. These projects include hurricane preparedness, active
                  shooter prevention and preparedness, and other safety initiatives. These projects
                  entail explaining the risk/ disaster and steps to take when faced with the situation
                  in order to minimize damage.


                        					EM Training
                        				 

                        					Request More Information
                        				 




                  				Wellness
                  			
USF promotes students' psychological wellness and academic success by providing students
                  high quality, culturally competent counseling, mental health education training and
                  outreach in collaboration with the University community in an effort to create psychologically,
                  cognitively, and emotionally well campuses. Contact the Student Affairs office for
                  your campus for more information.


                        					SOCAT
                        				 

                        					Victim Advocacy & Violence Prevent
                        				 

                        					Counseling Center
                        				 


