
Health and Safety


                  				Counseling Resources
                  			
The Counseling Center on the Tampa campus offers comprehensive psychological services
                  to help students navigate the challenges of college life and take advantage of opportunities
                  for personal growth. Learn about the psychological services, workshops, counseling
                  and treatment programs available. Counseling and wellness resources are available
                  on all campuses.


                        					Counseling Center at Tampa Campus
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Wellness Center
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Counseling & Wellness
                        				 




                  				Student Health Services
                  			
Student Health Services offers a variety of healthcare services, including general
                  medical care, immunizations, nutrition counseling, smoking cessation, laboratory services,
                  allergy shots, travel health and a full-service pharmacy (Tampa campus).


                        				Tampa Campus Student Health Services
                        			 

                        				St. Petersburg Campus Wellness Center
                        			 

                        				Sarasota-Manatee Campus Student Health Services
                        			 




                  				Center for Student Well-Being
                  			
At the Center for Student Well-Being in the Marshall Student Center, located on the
                  Tampa campus, you can meet with a registered dietitian, get a blood pressure screening,
                  pick up free condoms and gather information on a variety of health and wellness topics.
                  Learn about programs to maximize your wellbeing.


                        				Center for Student Well-Being
                        			 




                  				Victim Advocacy & Violence Prevention
                  			
USF’s dedicated team of victim advocates will confidentially assist any crime victim
                  with on-campus and community support services and resources. Additionally, students
                  can participate as peer educators in outreach programs.


                        					Tampa Campus Victim Advocacy Center
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Victim Advocacy Services
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Crisis Services & Victim Advocacy
                        				 




                  				Emergency and Safety Management
                  			
The safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors is a top priority at USF. Learn
                  about the various initiatives, emergency notification systems and programs in place
                  to ensure the safety of every member of the USF community.


                        					Emergency and Safety Management
                        				 

                        					Tampa Campus Security Guide
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Safety & Compliance
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Safety & Security
                        				 




                  				SAFE Team
                  			
Each year on the Tampa campus, the SAFE Team provides thousands of students safe travel
                  from one campus location to another, via escort, between the hours of 6:30 pm and
                  2:30 am daily. Learn more about the SAFE Team.


                        					SAFE Team
                        				 




                  				Police
                  			
The University Police Department in Tampa is a full-service law enforcement agency
                  serving and protecting the university community. Officers patrol the campus and surrounding
                  areas 24/7. Learn more about the USFPD and other police forces in St. Petersburg and
                  Sarasota-Manatee.


                        					University Police Department
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Police
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Police
                        				 




                  				Student Outreach and Support
                  			
USF has dedicated staff to help students manage life stressors that can impact academics
                  and personal well-being. We help students through a variety of interventions, university
                  services, community referrals and case management.


                        					Student Outreach and Support
                        				 




                  				Harassment & Discrimination
                  			
If you experience harassment and/or discrimination on campus or off (including internships),
                  visit this USF site for assistance.


                        					Compliance & Ethics
                        				 


