
Dean's Message

We are excited to present the 2023 Tampa Bay E-Insights Report that unveils new research
               tracking the status of work and the status of life in the Tampa Bay region.
A companion piece to the Regional Competitiveness Report, which presents research
               conducted by the Tampa Bay Partnership, this report is a multi-dimensional quantitative
               assessment that examines where we are compared to top markets nationwide and explores
               the steps policymakers could take to make Tampa Bay the best place in the nation to
               work and live.
This work is timely and important as it includes inquiries into the two crucial aspects
               of a region: work and life. As we move toward the post-pandemic era, it is time for
               us to assess how attractive the Tampa Bay region is in terms of job opportunities
               as well as living conditions. Our scholars used real-time big data to analyze the
               performance of the Tampa Bay region with respect to 19 other metropolitan areas.
What Gets Measured is What Gets Done
We’ve worked with the Tampa Bay Partnership on this effort since 2017 and one might
               ask why academics in a business school have taken on this effort? My answer: Yes,
               we teach business, but we do so much more than simply instruct students. Our business
               school is shaping business thinkers. Our faculty scholars bring business challenges
               into the classroom by connecting with civic leaders – people like you – and using
               our faculty expertise to contribute to the well-being of the greater community – all
               while providing opportunities for our students to conduct relevant business research.
               Graduate students worked alongside our faculty on this inquiry, gathering and analyzing
               data and preparing this report, giving them a learning opportunity that is beyond
               measure.
To improve our economic health, we must know where we stand relative to similar and
               aspirant communities. We want to take a scientific approach and work closely with
               the business community and policymakers to improve the economic health as well as
               of the region and to make the Tampa Bay area a very attractive destination for both
               businesses and the people who work in them. Understanding that what gets measured
               is what gets done, we can then gauge our progress and make timely and effective recommendations
               that can lead to a maximum impact. Data is the key.
Real-Time Signals, Real-Time Findings
One unique feature of this project is its focus on real-time data. We derive insights
               about the region by using real-time big data signals, such as Google Trends, LinkedIn,
               Indeed and Zillow. This approach allows us to look at the most current snapshot of
               the Tampa Bay region in addition to the historical trend. The historical trend analysis
               enables us to predict the economic health of the region in the coming years.
The analysis reveals a mixed picture of the Tampa Bay region on both status of work
               and status of life dimensions. While the Tampa Bay region stands close to the center
               of the comparison group in terms of the number of job openings per million Individuals,
               it ranks among the top five in terms of the number of IT jobs per million individuals.
               There is a strong increasing trend for remote jobs for all MSAs, including Tampa Bay.
               In terms of the status of life, the performance of Tampa is not so encouraging. The
               mental health status of the region has been on the decline since the start of the
               pandemic. Tampa is among the top MSAs searching for drugs online. Also, drug overdose
               deaths have seen an increasing trend in Tampa Bay in recent years.
Read through the full report to see these insights and the data behind them. As you
               do, you’ll see that there is much to be proud of – and room for improvements. Data
               is the key.
Enjoy our report,
GJ de VreedeInterim DeanUSF Muma College of Business
Our Sponsors

