
Student Privacy Rights

When you enroll at USF, you become responsible for all actions taken on your student
               record. All changes to your student record must be made by you via your USF email
               or in writing, and not by your parents, or spouse, etc. Never share your username
               or passwords to USF-assigned accounts. This ensures that your online identity remains
               both protected and authenticated. 
provide or restrict access to your student record
Do you want to ensure that USF doesn't release your information?
If you’re concerned about safeguarding your student record information, visit Archivum to request that USF excludes the release of your directory information. USF currently defines directory information as:

The student's name.
The student's classification and major field of study.
The student's participation in officially recognized activities and sports.
The weight and height of members of athletic teams.
The student's dates of attendance, part-time or full-time status, and degrees and
                  awards received.
The student's photographic image independent of any additional personal identifiers.

In addition, USF publishes an internal, password-protected Student Contact List online
               that contains the following items: Name, USF e-mail address, institutional affiliations
               (major, work-study location), college, campus, campus phone and campus mailstop. This
               online Contact List is available to any member of the University community with an
               active Net ID to be used only for internal legitimate educational purposes. Reuse
               or publication of the information outside of the University other than for legitimate
               educational purposes may result in immediate termination of access to University email
               and student or employee disciplinary actions. You may request to be excluded from
               this published Contact List as well as any Directory Information by visiting the link
               above.
Your request will be in place until you notify Privacy@usf.edu in writing from your USF email that you wish to rescind your request. What this means
               for you:

Privacy requests become effective within two business days of submission and remain
                  in effect until you provide authorization to the Office of the Registrar to end your
                  request.
You will be excluded from USF’s internal, password protected directory if your request
                  for "Privacy" is received by the Office of the Registrar by the end of the second
                  week of classes in the academic term. No public disclosures will be made before these
                  deadlines. You may continue to request privacy throughout the year, but USF assumes
                  no responsibility for disclosures made prior to receipt of your request.
It is difficult to authenticate a student on the phone without discussing directory
                  information; you may find that the majority of your contact with USF faculty and staff
                  will need to be in person with photo identification or via your official USF email.
You will not be excluded from reporting to the National Student Clearinghouse or the
                  National Student Loan Data System due to federal reporting requirements. However,
                  when we do send information to these agencies, it will be done so with the privacy
                  flag. These two reporting entities recognize Family Educational Rights and Privacy
                  Act (1974) (FERPA) and will maintain that confidentiality.

Would you like to provide ongoing access for a parent, spouse, or other third party
                  to review your student record information?
Submit the Student Record Access Authorization form to the Office of the Registrar in person with your photo ID OR from your USF email to privacy@usf.edu. By filling out this form, you will provide the people you designate with the ability
               to request information from your student record, but remember: When working with third
               parties, USF retains the right to determine if a need to know exists. Please understand
               that this permission doesn't include the ability to register you for courses, or complete
               forms on your behalf. As a USF student, you will continue to be responsible for initiating
               all changes to your student record.
ensure your record is accurate
You are required to notify the Office of the Registrar when there are record changes
               involving your name, social security number, addresses, telephone numbers, and external
               email addresses, even after you leave USF. The best way to update your information
               is in OASIS. If you need help making an update, send your request to AskTheRegistrar@usf.edu from your USF email address, and we’ll help you navigate the appropriate process.
Have additional questions?
Student FAQs | Faculty FAQs

