
Minors
Click for larger chart

ACCOUNTING
Offered on all campusesThe accounting minor is available to all undergraduate Muma College of Business students (except
               those majoring in accounting).
BUSINESS ANALYTICS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Offered on all campusesThe business analytics and information systems minor is available to all undergraduate
               business students (except those majoring in business analytics and information systems).
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Offered on all campusesThis is an interdisciplinary entrepreneurship minor available to USF business and
               industrial engineering majors (other majors should take the entrepreneurship and innovation
               minor for non-business and non-industrial engineering majors).
FINANCE
Offered on all campusesThe finance minor provides an opportunity for non-finance students to gain additional
               knowledge and analytical skills in finance. This knowledge and these skills are certain
               to help students broaden their career path.
HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION
Offered on Sarasota-Manatee and St. Petersburg campusesThis minor is open to students from all colleges.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
Offered on all campusesThe minor in international business provides business students the opportunity to
               study international topics related to finance, global information systems, management,
               marketing, and global perspectives. This minor prepares students to work in an internationally
               diverse work force or employment abroad.
LEGAL STUDIES
Offered on St. Petersburg campusThe USF Muma College of Business, in conjunction with the USF College of Arts and
               Sciences, offers a legal studies minor that is open to all USF students. The minor
               in legal studies provides students with real law for the real world.
MANAGEMENT
Offered on all campusesThe management minor provides an introductory understanding to non-management business
               majors about the theories and practices of management. Students will be familiarized
               with the tools and techniques that managers use to plan, organize, lead people and
               processes in organizations.
MARKETING
Offered on all campusesThe marketing minor is as excellent complement to all other business majors. All business
               majors will be challenged as they are challenged to develop and grow client bases,
               communicate and promote products and services to relevant target audiences, build
               distribution efficiencies, invest in cutting edge product development and understand
               critical marketing research. A minor in marketing can help any business major develop
               and implement these critical competitive advantages and set themselves apart from
               their peers.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INSURANCE
Offered on Sarasota-Manatee campusThe risk management and insurance minor is available to all undergraduate business
               students ( except those majoring in risk management and insurance).
