
Colleges


                  				Arts
                  			
The College of The Arts provides an immersive scholarly, artistic and technical environment
                  for tomorrow’s leaders in architecture, community design, art, art history, music,
                  theatre and dance. It is also home to the Institute for Research in Art, comprised
                  of the Contemporary Art Museum and Graphicstudio. The college offers programs at our
                  Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses.


                        					College of The Arts
                        				 




                  				Arts and Sciences
                  			
The College of Arts and Sciences is the largest college at USF with programs offered
                  at all three campuses and is home to the School of Humanities, the School of Social
                  Sciences and the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics.


                        					College of Arts and Sciences
                        				 




                  				Behavioral and Community Sciences
                  			
The College of Behavioral and Community Sciences prepares students to improve the
                  quality of life, health and safety of diverse populations. It is home to one of the
                  country's largest behavioral health research and training institutes and offers programs
                  at all three of our campuses.


                        				College of Behavioral and Community Sciences
                        			 




                  				Business
                  			
The Muma College of Business prepares students to take leadership positions in business
                  and society. Since 2008, the college's graduate entrepreneurship program has been
                  ranked among the top 25 in the nation by the Princeton Review. The college offers
                  programs at all three of our campuses.


                        				Muma College of Business
                        			 




                  				Education
                  			
The College of Education is a leader in regional, national and international education.
                  Over the past 10 years, the college has graduated the largest or second-largest number
                  of educators in the state of Florida. The college offers programs at all three of
                  our campuses.


                        					College of Education
                        				 




                  				Engineering
                  			
The College of Engineering provides a high-quality educational experience for students
                  and practicing professionals and is a leader in innovative research in the areas of
                  sustainability, renewable energy and biomedical engineering. The college offers programs
                  at our Tampa and Sarasota-Manatee campuses.


                        					College of Engineering
                        				 




                  				Global Sustainability
                  			
The Patel College of Global Sustainability prepares students to address complex regional,
                  national and global challenges in sustainability and the ability to innovate in diverse
                  cultural, geographic and demographic contexts. The college offers programs at our
                  Tampa campus.


                        					Patel College of Global Sustainability
                        				 




                  				Honors College
                  			
The Judy Genshaft Honors College provides motivated students an exciting experience
                  and productive learning environment that combines the advantages of a small, highly
                  personalized college with the resources of a major research institution. The college
                  has a presence at all three campuses.


                        					Judy Genshaft Honors College
                        				 




                  				USF Libraries
                  			
The four USF Libraries are collectively at the heart of the University’s research
                  and teaching mission. At the core level, their collective role is to provide access
                  to high-quality research collections, to deliver innovative and impactful support
                  for transdisciplinary research, and to provide access to exceptional research tools
                  and facilities.


                        					USF Libraries
                        				 




                  				Marine Science
                  			
The College of Marine Science is a global leader in applying science to society’s
                  needs through research, service and training of future scientists. The college is
                  recognized among the nation's top oceanographic institutions and offers programs at
                  our St. Petersburg campus.


                        					College of Marine Science
                        				 




                  				Medicine
                  			
The Morsani College of Medicine is a major academic medical center known nationally
                  for its innovative curriculum with an emphasis on improving health through interprofessional
                  education, high-impact research and clinical activities. The college offers programs
                  at our Tampa campus and our South Tampa instructional site.


                        					Morsani College of Medicine
                        				 




                  				Nursing
                  			
The USF College of Nursing engages the core values of excellence, innovation, inclusion,
                  and respect to educate future nurses, advance nursing science, and implement evidence-based
                  clinical practice to improve health and wellness. The college offers programs at our
                  Tampa and Sarasota-Manatee campuses.


                        					College of Nursing
                        				 




                  				Pharmacy
                  			
The Taneja College of Pharmacy is a pacesetter in pharmacy curriculum and experience.
                  Through interprofessional and simulation resources, students are prepared to deliver
                  technologically-advanced pharmaceutical care based on genetic profile and individualized
                  responses to medications. The college offers programs at our Tampa campus.


                        					Taneja College of Pharmacy
                        				 




                  				Public Health
                  			
The College of Public Health offers masters and doctoral degrees as well as Florida's
                  first bachelor's degree in public health. The curriculum features cooperative learning,
                  research, problem-solving and field experience to advance and improve public health.
                  The college offers programs at our Tampa campus.


                        					College of Public Health
                        				 


