
Undergraduate Certificates
Click for larger chart
Complete a Undergraduate Certificate Application

 


Students must FIRST be approved to pursue the certificate before permits for classes
               will be issued.
GENERAL BUSINESS
Offered on Tampa campusThis certificate is designed exclusively for non-business majors. Perfect for students
               majoring in mass communications, criminology, psychology, international studies, social
               work, public health, history, philosophy or political science (or similar majors),
               this program provides the business knowledge that will help students in these and
               other disciplines land a job where they can apply their skills in a corporate setting.
Beverage Management
The Beverage Certificate Program aims to prepare students to deal with the problems
               and opportunities in a beverage operations environment. To this end, the courses provide
               students with relevant analytical, menu engineering, and communication skills that
               can, and are, applied to solve problems and understand cultural differences that can
               arise in beverage business contexts.
BUSINESS ANALYTICS AND INFORMATION SCIENCES
Offered on Tampa campusThis certificate is designed exclusively for non-business majors. Perfect for students
               majoring in mass communications, criminology, psychology, international studies, social
               work, public health, history, philosophy, languages, political science or computer
               science (or similar majors), this program provides the information systems and business
               analytics knowledge - without having to pursue a business minor.
Event Management
All certificate students must take the following three courses: Event Management,
               Conventions and Meetings Management, and Restaurant Management.  Students choose their
               fourth course elective from the following five courses: Beverage Management, International
               Wine & Culture, International Whisky & Culture, History & Culture of Beer, or International
               Food & Culture.
SALES
Offered on Tampa campusUSF's sales certificate is designed for non-business majors. The sales certificate
               is ideal for students in STEM disciplines such as engineering, computer science or
               biomedical studies. The key benefit from this specialized area of study is attaining
               advanced professional sales instruction. This development of skills and knowledge
               is critical for professionals to be successful in sales or business careers.
