
News
Good News, Bad News in the Tampa Bay Partnership’s Regional Competitiveness Report
                  and the Center for Analytics and Creativity’s E-Insights ReportJanuary 15, 2021 The Tampa Bay E-Insights Report 2021, compiled from real-time sources such as Google
               searches, Zillow postings and LinkedIn employment connections mined by researchers
               with the Muma College of Business, reveals the attitudes, culture and economic viability
               of the Tampa Bay region in comparison to other municipalities of similar size and
               demographics.
Want to Know How the Tampa Bay Region Measures Up? Find out on Jan. 15 at the Annual
                  State of the Region MeetingJanuary 6, 2021 The Tampa Bay E-Insights Report 2021, complied from real-time sources such as Google
               searches, Zillow postings and LinkedIn employment connections, has furthered the understanding
               of how the Tampa Bay region compares to other municipalities of similar size and demographics.
Silver linings and sobering statistics emerge in Tampa Bay Partnership State of the
                     Region – CatalystMay 28, 2020 Record high unemployment, declines in homes sales and a murky prognosis for air travel
               are among the impacts the Tampa Bay region has felt from the COVID-19 pandemic.
ISDS Researchers Identify Public Transportation as Key to the Region's Upward Trajectory January 9, 2020 The State of the Region conference is the annual forum in which a year’s worth of
               research is unveiled, research that measures factors that contribute to the quality
               of life of this and other regions.
Muma College of Business Profs, Grad Students Provide Research for the State of the
                     Region December 12, 2018 An exhaustive survey of local tweets over the past two months shows people just love
               downtown Tampa, but hate the traffic getting there. The findings also included facts
               such as most of the people in the region work in Hillsborough County, but live elsewhere
               and that interest in USF spikes each fall, maybe because of football or maybe because
               of fall is the beginning of the academic year.
Tampa Bay Partnership study shows lag in job growth, pay and transit - FlaPol December 12, 2018 The Tampa Bay Partnership’s 2019 Regional Competitiveness Report shows the Tampa
               Bay region has room for improvement in several areas — some surprising, others not
               so much.
USF, Partnership identify what businesses can do to improve Tampa's economy in new
                     reports - Tampa Bay Business Journal December 13, 2018 The USF's Muma College of Business and Tampa Bay Partnership think they may have
               some answers to Tampa's economic issues.
2020 State of the Region Highlight Video
2020 E-Insights Report
