
Special Programs


                  				Living-learning communities
                  			
Living-learning communities, known as LLCs, are residential communities with a special
                  emphasis on an academic major or interest area. The Bulls Business Network, an organization
                  for high-achieving first-year students, provides an avenue for students to enjoy early
                  admission to the business school with special registration and other opportunities,
                  including two LLCs targeting business majors (students must be BBN members to live
                  in the LLCs).


                        					View living-learning communities
                        				 




                  				Business Honors Program
                  			
Exclusively for the nation’s best and most motivated learners, this highly selective
                  program provides talented students with opportunities to learn from USF’s best faculty.
                  USF’s Business Honors Program blends rigorous coursework and research activities with
                  special residential, service, international, and applied learning opportunities found
                  inside and outside of the business classroom.


                        				View Business Honors Program
                        			 




                  				Corporate Mentor Program
                  			
The Corporate Mentor Program, exclusively for USF business students, pairs Tampa Bay's
                  executives with students for a year-long program. Volunteers in the Corporate Mentor
                  Program are business professionals who provide guidance and opportunities for these
                  first-generation business students. Students might shadow an executive at a Chamber
                  of Commerce meeting, enjoy a monthly lunch session or the tag along on a corporate
                  presentation.


                        				View Corporate Mentor Program
                        			 




                  				Business Ethics Initiative
                  			
Open to any USF Muma College of Business undergraduate student, the new Business Ethics
                  Initiative is a new opportunity for USF to recognize undergraduate students who have
                  made significant efforts to learn about and promote ethical behavior, specifically
                  as it applies to business.


                        					View Initiative
                        				 




                  				Bulls to Business Program
                  			
The Bulls to Business program is a four-week long summer program that offers early
                  admission to the Muma College of Business for first-year business students. The program
                  is highly selective, allowing 33 students to complete specialized courses that will
                  give them an early advantage in preparation for their future careers.


                        					View Program
                        				 


