Muma College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
 
Information Security and IT Risk Management   
ISM 6328 .022/300 
 
Course Information  
Course Title: Information Security (INFOSEC ) and IT Risk Management  
Course Subject # / Section:  
• ISM 6328  / 022 
• ISM 6328 / 300 
Course Semester: Fall 2023 
Course Credit Hours: 3 
Course Duration: 8 Weeks ( 10/16/23-12/7/23) 
Course Occurrence: Weekly ( Asynchronous)  
Course Meeting Times: Asynchronous (Online)  
Course  Meeting Location: Off Campus (Online)  
 
Instructor Information  
Name: Dr. Marcus L. Green      
Office:  CIS 2070 -A 
Weekly Office Hours : Virtual via M icrosoft Teams; Mondays , 12 - 1 pm EST   
Office Hours (virtual): By appointment only; meetings will occur  using Microsoft Teams  
Phone: (o) 813 -974-6754  
E-mail: mlg5 @usf.edu       
 
 
Course Description  
Introduction of frameworks to assess IT risk and implement IT general controls; 
development of technical skills to secure computer networks .  
 
Course Material, Literature, and Software  
Textbooks  (All Required)   
Fundamentals of Information Systems Security  + Cloud Labs : Fourth Edition, ISBN: 
9781284251333  (paperback), ISBN: 9781284244571  (eBook), Author: David Kim, 
Michael G. Solomon  
 
This book is the main textbook we will utilize throughout the course. The book contains 
labs that must be completed for the course. The book must be purchased before the first 
day of our course. This is non -negotiable. The correct book is the one that includes the 
cloud labs. The labs allow you to gain basic, fundamental, and cybersecurity practical 
experience. Each week you will be required to complete between a lab exercise, for a 
total of 7 labs total. The  book can be purchased through the USF book store or directly 
from the publisher. It is your  responsibility to purchase the book by any means necessary. 
If you would like to take the publisher route, I have worked directly with the publisher to lower the c ost of the book. Use the following link to access this option, the book it 
already discounted and reflects the lower price:  
 
Per the Publisher: " Here’s a link students can use to purchase their materials; this link 
will put the eBook and Lab Bundle in their shopping cart with the discount already 
applied to their order ": 
https://checkout.jblearning.com/cart/Default.aspx?bc=24457 -
1&ref=jblearning&coupon=ISM6328USF  
 
 
97 Things Every Information Security Professional Should Know: Collective Wisdom 
from the Experts : Edition 1st, ISBN: 9781098101398, Author: Christina Morillo, 
Publisher: O'Reilly Media  
 
  
Course Context (additional description)  
Cyber -attacks cost the global economy $445 billion annually and affect a variety of 
domains such as healthcar e, government, academia, and industry. Recent years have seen 
an unfortunate and disruptive growth in the number of cyber -attacks. To stem this grand 
societal issue, there are increasing calls for well -trained cybersecurity professionals, with 
an estimated  3.5 million cybersecurity job openings by 2021. Despite this high demand, 
there is currently a severe shortage of qualified candidates. Specifically, individuals lack 
technical skills such as planning/implementing/upgrading/monitoring emerging 
technologie s, incident response, security controls, and basic systems administration. 
Moreover, candidates often lack the non -technical skills of researching and reading new 
technologies, regulatory compliance, internal security policies, standards, and procedures. 
This hands -on, introductory, graduate -level course, backwards engineered with 
DHS/NSA key knowledge unit requirements for maintaining the Center for Academic 
Excellence for Cyber Defense (CAE -CD) at USF, aims to alleviate these concerns and 
help students be  prepared to become competitive candidates  in the information security 
industry . 
 
Prerequisite Requirements  
Technical Requirements: Full -time access to a personal computer (Mac or PC is fine). 
We also assume that you have a technical background before entering this course (as per 
the requirements for the MS in Cybersecurity program). This includes basic systems 
administration, shell scripting, and knowledge about computer networking. Students 
without these background areas are strongly recommended to first gain some experience 
in these areas, then take this course.  
 
 
Course Workload Expectations  
Any university c ourse requires a large amount of work outside of lecture. This course is 
structured around 8 weeks. This is a fast paced course! We assume you will allocate an 
average of at least 8 hours per week for study, quiz, and assignment work.  If you 
procrastinate,  you may find that you do not have enough time, or that a technology 
problem is preventing you from completing your submissions on time. Note that 
technology problems (such as computer or network failures) will not be accepted as 
acceptable excuses .  
Learn ing O bjectives   
Upon completion of the course students will demonstrate the ability to:  
 
1. Demonstrate an understanding of security concerns and issues in organizations  
2. Learn how to identify and characterize assets relevant to cyber security  
3. Have the abilit y to identify major categories of information security threats  
4. Have the ability to apply various kinds of controls to counter common threats  
5. Learn about important compliance requirements related to cybersecurity  
6. Have the ability to provide solutions to mitigate IT risks .  
 
Course Grading and Assignment Policies  
Grading Scale  
Letter grades will be awarded according to the percentage  scale below.   
 
  
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
≥ 97 
≥ 94 
≥ 90 A+ (max 10% of class)* 
A 
A- ≥ 87 
≥ 84 
≥ 80 B+ 
B 
B- ≥ 77 
≥ 74 
≥ 70 C+ 
C 
C- ≥ 67 
≥ 64 
≤ 60 D+ 
D 
F 
 
         
Grade Categories and Weights   
Four deliverables make up the total grade: quizzes, assignments, labs, and the final 
projec t. The percentage breakdown for each is provided in the table below. The following 
sub-sections describe each component .     
 
Deliverable  Point Value 
per 
Deliverable  Deliverable 
Amount  Max Points for 
Deliverable  Grade Percentage  
Quizzes  25 3 75 8% 
Discussion 
Assignments  50 5 250 25% 
Discussion 
Assignments 
Responses  25 5 125 13% 
Labs  50 7 350 35% 
Final Project  200 1 200 20% 
Total  n/a n/a 1000  100%  
 
 
         
 Course Assignments Details /Requirements : 
Weekly Modules : 
 
This course contains eight Canvas modules. Every module has specific information 
security themes and concepts. The modules contain lectures, presentations, and readings 
that explain the weekly themes and concepts. There are graded assessments in the form o f 
assignments, quizzes, and labs for each module that validate specific learning objectives 
have been met .   
 
Quizzes:  
 
There are 3 quizzes throughout the course. These items will test your retention of the 
fundamental concepts of information security. There will normally be a quiz every week 
that covers the chapters in our textbook ( Fundamentals of Information Systems Security  
+ Clou d Labs ). The quizzes will normally open on Monday morning and close Sunday 
night. Each quiz is worth 25 points.  
 
Discussion Assignments:  
 
Discussion a ssignments are centered on students using critical thinking skills. I want to 
know not just what you thin k about a topic, but more importantly, I want to know the 
reasoning that drives the thinking. The information security topics will vary but  will 
mostly be focused on weekly topics. All assignments will be at least 500 words, 
submitted in APA format, and ha ve proper citations and references. The assignments will 
normally open on Monday at 8:00 am and due the following Thursday night. Coupled 
with the discussion post directive is the requirement to provide feedback on another 
student’s post; this second requi rement is normally due Sunday a t 11:59 pm  of that week.  
 
Labs : 
 
You must complete computer lab work in this course. The labs are available with the 
Fundamentals of Information Systems Security  + Cloud Labs  textbook. The book is 
required. This means you ha ve to purchase the book. The book must be purchased before 
the first day of our course. This is non -negotiable. The correct book is the one that 
includes the cloud labs. The labs allow you to gain basic, fundamental, cybersecurity 
practical experience. Most weeks you will be required to complete a lab exercise, for a 
total of 7 labs total . Normally Sections 1 and 2 are required to be completed for each lab. 
The deliverable is a lab report in PDF format. The lab report is submitted in Canvas.  
 
 
Final Project : 
 
The Final Project will be a 5-page  paper  detailing an information security inciden t that 
has occurred within the last three years. Using concepts learned in this course, the paper 
must outline why the incident happened, how the incident could have been avoided, and 
what counter measures could be implemented to remediate similar future i ncidents. Also 
include insights from the required book “ 97 Things Every Information Security 
Professional Should Know: Collective Wisdom from the Experts. ”  The paper must be in 
APA format and contain proper references.    
   
 
Course Schedule   
*Students wi ll complete all chapter readings, labs, and assessments using “Fundamentals of Information 
Systems Security + Cloud Labs: Fourth Edition, ISBN: 9781284251333 (paperback), ISBN: 
9781284244571 (eBook), Author: David Kim, Michael G. Solomon”  
 
Module/ Week  Topic  Lecture/Literature Review  Required Taks  
1 Information Systems 
Security and 
Emerging 
Technologies  Lecture Video, Chapter s 1-2, PowerPoint 
Presentation  
Begin Reading: 97 Things Every 
Information Security Professional Should 
Know: Collective Wisdom fr om the Experts  First-Day Attendance Discussion  
Lab 1  
Discussion Assignment  
Quiz  
2 Risks, Threats, And 
Vulnerabilities  Lecture Video, Chapter 3, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 2  
Quiz  
3 Business Drivers, 
Networks, and 
Telecommunications  Lecture Video, Chapter s 4-5, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 3  
Discussion Assignment  
4 Access Controls and 
Cryptography  Lecture Video, Chapte rs 6-7, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 4  
Discussion Assignment  
Mid-Term Course Survey  
5 Malicious Software 
and Attack Vectors  Lecture Video, Chapte r 8, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 5  
Quiz  
6 Security Operations, 
Auditing, Testing, 
and Monitoring  Lecture Video, Chapte rs 9-10, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 6  
Discussion Assignment  
7 Contingency 
Planning and Digital 
Forensics  Lecture Video, Chapte rs 11 -12, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Lab 7  
Discussion Assignment  
8 Information Security 
Standards, 
Certifications, and 
Laws  Lecture Video, Chapte rs 13 -15, PowerPoint 
Presentation  Complete Book: 97 Things 
Every Information Security Professional 
Should Know: Collective Wisdom from the 
Experts  Final Project  
 
**In the interests of the class, deviations may be made in the coverage of topics as outlined in the 
tentative course calendar. However, to help plan your calendars for the rest of the semester, 
assessment and deadline dates will be non -negotiable after the first day of class. Some deadlines may be 
clubbed together to accommodate schedules.  
***All deliverables are due at the end of day (11:59 PM) on the submission date (usually Sunday).  
 
Attendance Discussion Assignment  
To meet USF’s First Day Attendance req uirement a discussion assignment has been set 
up in Canvas.  Please complete the quiz before Thursday, October 19 , 2023 at 11:59 PM .  
If you do not complete the discussion assignment you will be administratively dropped 
from our course.  
 
Late Work Policy  Assignments turned in late to Canvas are assessed a penalty of a ten percent deduction for 
every 24 hours  of being late , for up to a maximum of fifty percent deduction . For 
example, if a student turns in an assignment less than 24 hours l ate, a 10  percent point 
penalty  is assessed; and if a student turns in an assignment between 48 -72 hours late, a 30 
percent penalty is assessed. The latest an assignment is will be accepted is 7 days after 
the due date .  
 
The said penalties will be in addi tion to normal deductions of points for failure to do the 
assignment correctly.  Times of assignment uploads are recorded by Canvas and reported 
to the professor.  
 
Should you wish to discuss the grading and points awarded for any assignment your 
professor is happy to accommodate you.  However, you must do so within two weeks of 
the graded assignment being returned to you via Canvas.  If you do not discuss such with 
your professor within the two -week window the professor will assume you are satisfied 
with th e grading of the assignment  and will consider the points awarded to be final.  After 
the two -week window no discussions of points awarded on an assignment will be 
entertained.  
 
 
Extra Credit Policy  
There are no opportunities for extra credit in this cours e.  Students’ focus should be on 
the primary work in the course.  
 
Medical Issues   
There are certainly cases in which a student legitimately cannot complete course 
assignments for valid medical reasons.  To be excused from course work in such cases 
requires  students to furnish a standard note from a health care professional stating care is 
being sought for an ailment or condition which can impede a student’s ability to complete 
course work.  Without such a note an excuse from course work cannot be granted.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete"  
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and 
sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is 
due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete 
assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long 
as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for 
graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not 
cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate cours es and one semester for graduate 
courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Academic Integrity and Academic Misconduct  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s 
commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. 
Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, 
respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own 
efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic 
sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status 
of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the 
independently accredited institution.   The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, a s well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF 
System Regulation 3.027.  
 
In our course assig nments , the professor has several methods for penalizing those who 
engage in academic misconduct.  Among these methods the professor can 1) award 0 
points for an assignment on which a student has engaged in misconduct, 2) award an F in 
the entire course, o r 3) award a special FF grade in the course.  An FF appears 
permanently on the student's transcript as a special designation showing the student failed 
the course for reasons of academic misconduct.   The FF includes expulsion from the 
University.  
 
Web Post ing Course Materials  
Students are reminded that posting course materials to third -party sites such as Course 
Hero or Chegg represents a violation of the professor’s copyright on those materials and 
constitutes theft of intellectual property.    
 
Disruption to Academic Process  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of 
the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a 
classroom or other academic environment which in the reas onable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b)  presents a danger to the health, safety, 
or well -being of self or other persons.  
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking courses within the University of South Fl orida System an opportunity for objective 
review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An 
“academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects 
that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or 
has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students.  
 
 
 
Attendance Policy  
Students are expected to exhibit professionalism through regular and on -time attendance 
to class l ectures, whether those lectures are offered live or online. Accommodation will 
be made for excused absences by making arrangements with students ahead of time 
(when possible) or by providing a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work .   
 
Group Work  Policy:  No g roup work is allowable according the guidance provided earlier in this document.  
 
Final Examinations Policy:  
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination 
policy.  
 
 
Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other 
people’s ideas and be constructive when expl aining your views about points you may not 
agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. 
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs or other g eneral differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, 
and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas 
before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to 
easily get your idea or answers they  are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t 
see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  
The primary means of communication between instructor and students between live class 
meetings will be email.  “Blast emails” will occasionally be sent by the instructor to all 
students via Canvas.  Students can feel free to email their instructor with que stions at any 
time.  Please anticipate a response time of 24 hours to email queries.   
 
Laptop Usage  
Laptop/Tablet usage is highly encouraged in this course given the nature of the material.  
Students are responsible for making certain their technology is  appropriate to the needs of 
program and is in good working order for class lectures and assignments.    
 
 
 
Phone Usage:  
Students are allowed to use devices for recording lectures for their personal use, though 
students must still adhere to classroom behavi oral expectations while recording. Students 
attending the in -person lectures are asked to place their mobile phones on “silent” and to 
step outside the classroom to take any important calls.  Phones may not be used during 
in-class assignments.   
Recordings   
In this class, software will be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a 
student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These 
recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in  the class, to assist those 
who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to 
review content that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will 
be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss 
this option with your instructor .  
 
Canvas  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. 
Canvas will be used in this course to disseminate materials turn in weekly assignments 
and re turn graded assignments.  If you need help learning how to perform various tasks 
related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following 
videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department a t 
(813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Online Exam Proctoring  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  terms  
and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  
Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  
may elect  to drop or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  
taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is 
purchased  and controll ed by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  
must  be done  with the permission  of any person  residing  in the residence.   
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  
with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  
any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of 
any third -party  privacy  concerns.  Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they 
take all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  
information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  
students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . 
For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  proctoring  student  
FAQ  and Honorlock  student resources .   
 
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication  
While students may use digital communication tools (WhatsApp, Slack, GroupMe, etc.) 
to communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that academic integrity 
policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests is 
prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an 
examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.   
 
 
Course Policies: Student Expectations  
Title IX Policy  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support a nd equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, 
Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures 
of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX 
Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to 
make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via 
phone, or email to the Title IX Offic e. For information about Title IX or for a full list of 
resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are 
unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can 
review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero / Cheg g Policy  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by upload ing or downloading material for this purpose. This 
does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these 
websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
 
Profession alism Policy  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be 
silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked 
to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learni ng environment. 
Please arrive on time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by 
talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final 
class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations  
All class es at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. 
Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy  
Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for 
this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly 
enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with e ach 
submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard 
copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a 
report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used  in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays 
are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Disability Access  
Students with  disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify 
instructors of accommodation requests at least 5 business days prior to needing the 
accommoda tion. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you shou ld 
plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  
 
Campus Free Expression   
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment 
where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically  
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas 
that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and 
not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the 
idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the 
idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective m ethods or criteria. Regardless, you may 
decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you 
may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the 
ideas. Understanding an idea does not me an that you are required to believe it or agree 
with it . 
 
 
 
Make -up Exams Policy   
If a student cannot be present for an examination for a valid reason (validity to be 
determined by the instructor), a make -up exam will be given only if the student has 
notified the instructor in advance that s/he cannot be present for the exam. Make -up 
exams are given at the convenience of the instructor .  
 
Rewrites Policy   Rewrites are entirely optional; however, only the formal essay may be rewritten for a 
revised grad e. Note that an alternate grading rubric will be used for the rewrite, featuring 
an additional column that evaluates the changes made specifically . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Exams Retention P olicy   
After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class and 
collect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, 
and then they will be destroyed . 
 
Essay Commentary Policy  
Commentary on essays will be delivered in written format, at the end of the essay. 
However, upon request, an alternate d elivery method can be used. If desired, instructor 
comments will be made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 through Canvas. 
This approach yields far fewer written comments, but much more commentary in general 
is delivered, due to the speed and  specificity of speech. Those requesting mp3 feedback 
must state so when the essay is turned in.  
 
Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility 
Services (SA S) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information 
about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sa rasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promote s university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of S tudent 
Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing  
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa  campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  Example : The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or 
abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocati ng for their rights, and 
by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, preven tion, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will  work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudi o@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing stu dio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at 
https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/index.aspx#spring2023   
 
*  