1 ISM 6577  
DECISION PROCESSES FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY  
SYLLABUS  
Instructor : Joni L Jones  
Office :  CIS 20 69   
Telephone : 941-359-4234   
E-mail :  jonijones@usf.edu  Office Hours:   As Posted on Announcements  
Textbook s:  
1. Howard Raiffa , Ralph L. Keeney , John S. Hammond , John Hammond , Ralph Keeney , Smart  Choices : A Practical 
Guide to Making Better Decisions, (2015 ) Harvard Business Review Press  ISBN -13: 978-1-63369 -105-6, ISBN: 1-
63369 -105-5 Use the following link to get fre e ebook access to  Smart Choices : 
http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&scope=site&db=nl ebk
&db=nlabk&AN=1282444  
2. David C. Skinner, Introduction to Decision Analysis (3rd Edition) , (Mar 9, 2009) , ISBN -10: 0964793865, Probabilistic 
Publishing   
3. Susan Snedaker, Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery planning for IT Professionals (2 nd Ed.), (Oct. 8, 2013), 
Syngress, ISBN -10: 0124105262   Use the following link to get free ebook access to  Business Continuity and 
Disaster Recovery Planning for IT  Professionals:  
http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=1115178  
Course Description  
Introduction to decision making and risk assessment skills to plan for and respond effectively to disasters affecting our 
information systems and critical infrastructures with the goal of maintaining business continuity.  
Course Objectives  
The g oal of the course is to introduce decision making and risk assessment skills to respond effectively to disasters  
affecting our critical infrastructure . The course is open to students in all majors. Course objectives will be accomplished 
through two categor ies of information – (1) helping students develop quantitative skills and frameworks to make 
decisions and assess risks  and (2) apply these skills in the service of protecting critical infrastructure . 
The course will include class discussions and  presentat ions to prepare students to develop a business continuity and 
disaster recovery plan for a selected organization . 
Specifically, the course objectives are:  
1. To introduce basic data analysis, probability, and statistical analysis.  
2. To introduce important  decis ion-making  frameworks . 
3. To introduce risk assessment frameworks . 
4. To make students aware of common  decision impediments while analy zing risks . 
5. To enable students to  plan and develop business continuity plans  for critical infrastructures . 
6. To enable students t o plan and develop disaster recovery plans  for critical infrastructures . 
The student learning outcomes are:  
1. Students will demonstrate an understanding of basic data analysis, probability, and statistical analysis.  
2. Students will demonstrate an understanding of  common decision -making frameworks . 
3. Students will demonstrate an understanding of  common risk -assessment frameworks . 
4. Students will demonstrate an understanding of how  to plan for business continuity  
5. Students will demonstrate an understandin g of how  to plan for disaster recovery  
Logistics  
• Use the phrase “ ISM 6577 ” in the subject line of your email (no spaces) to help me filter emails.  
• In all deliverables and communication, please include your name.  You will lose credit for not doing s o. 2 • For q uestions about the course content or any assignment, please utilize scheduled office hours, or call for an 
appointment. You can also contact me via email.  DO NOT USE THE COMMENTS SECTION ASSOCIATED WITH AN 
ASSIGNMENT…THESE ARE EASILY OVERLOOKED.   
• All work  should be completed using professional standards. Assignments will be submitted via Canvas and submitted 
to Turnitin.  Please ensure that you cite any material referenced appropriately. If you have any question, please do 
not hesitate to ask for clarifica tion or assistance.  
• To improve the efficiency and effectiveness in delivering course content, each student will be responsible for all items 
contained or emails sent via Canvas.  
• Late Assignments : There are no make -ups for course deliverables. The deliverab les and due dates for this course are 
published at the beginning of the semester and all assignments are available and assessable to be completed from the 
first day of class.  Please do not wait until the last minute to complete the assignment to avoid situ ations where you 
are faced with an illness or emergency that prevents you from completing the work by the due date.  Deliverables are 
due by the end of day on the due date (usually this means Sunday 11:55pm).  
• Re-grade Policy  - All tests and other graded ma terial may be submitted for re -evaluation of the grade by the instructor.  
To request a re -grade, you must submit a written request within one week of the date the test or assignment was 
returned.  The written request must include a cover sheet that explai ns (1) The specific test questions or aspects of 
the assignment that you want re -evaluated and  (2) Why the original grade is in error and should be reconsidered.  
 Business Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not 
limited to: Canvas , MS Teams , Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the 
student to monitor Canvas  for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, College, and department 
websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.  
Grading  
Activity  Unit 
weight  Total weight  
Assessments ( 5) 10% 50% 
Assignment ( 2)/Discussion ( 1) 10%  30 % 
BC/DR Review Assignment  20%  20%  
Grading policy  
Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  Total%  Grade  
>= 9 7 
>= 9 4 
>= 90 A+ (max 10% of class)1 
A 
A- >= 8 7 
>= 8 4 
>= 80 B+ 
B 
B- >= 7 7 
>= 74 
>= 70 C+ 
C 
C- >= 67 
<=64 
< =60 D+ 
D 
F 
ISM 6577  - Course outline*  
Week  Topic  Source  Deadlines  11:55 PM 
1 
 Syllabus, defining decision 
problems  Smart choices, chapters 1 - 6  ProACT Assignment  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 1  
2 
 Evaluating choices  Smart choices , chapters 7 - 10 Assessment 1  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 2  
3 
 Decision analysis  Dec. analysis, chapters 2, 4  Assessment 2  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 3  
4 
 Decision Modeling & Probability  Dec. analysis, chapters 7 -8 Assessment 3  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 4  
5 
 Simulation, Uncertainty and Risk  Dec. analysis, chapters 9 - 11 Simulation  Assignment  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 5  
6 Business continuity and disaster BC & DR, chapters 1 & 4,  Assessment 4 
 
1 At instructor’s discretion  3  recovery overview  Sunday 11:55 Wk 6  
7 
 Risk Assessment and Mitigation 
strategies  BC & DR, chapters 5 & 6  NYBOT Discussion  
Sunday 11:55 Wk 7  
8 
 BC and DR plan testing and 
maintenance  BC & DR, chapters 7 -9 Assessment 5  
DR Plan Review  
Friday Wk 8 – Last day of 
class  
*In the interests of the class, deviations may be made in the coverage of topics as outlined in the tentative course 
calendar. However, to help plan your calendars for the rest of the semester, assessment and deadline dates will be non -
negotiable after the first d ay of class.  
**All deliverables are due at the end of day (11:55 PM) Sunday  except as noted on course outline . 
Disaster Recovery Plan Assignment  
1. The Executive Summary (pages ES -1 & ES -2), and Chapters 1 and 2 (pages 1 -13) [Note: in Acrobat these are pages 
11-25] of the Contingency Planning Guide for Information Technology Systems from the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, 20 10. http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800 -34r1     
2. Review the KPMG Checklist for Business Recovery , in particular the list under “Technology/Management”  On Canvas  
 
Read t he m aterial on contingency planning and disaster recovery plans  as well as your text books to  prepare yourself for 
this assignment . 
Deliverables:  Paper not to exceed 3000 words.   Please cite any material using MLA style if necessary.  
Part 1:  Describe the process (steps) you would use in any organization to develop a Business Continuity and D isaster 
Recovery plan  
Part 2:  Critically r eview the DR plan attached here: TXA&MITDisasterRecoveryPlan.pdf  .Suggest way s to improve, note 
any missi ng elements, and provide any other suggestions you have for the develop ment team.    
Standard Poli cies:  
Online Proctoring of Quizzes  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to 
determine  if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all 
terms.  Any student  may  elect  to drop  or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  a 
webc am (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  understand  that  this remote  
recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that  recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be 
done  with  the permission  of any pers on residing  in the residence.   
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with  concerns  may  
discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  their  instructor  or advisor.   
Students  must ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and 
liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.   
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that  they  take  all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high -speed  
internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  
4 are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit 
the USF online  proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .   
Online Exam Policy  
The following items are  NOT PERMITTED  within quizzes or exams.   
• Referencing any external resources (physical or digital) during the exam other than book and notes.  
• Receiving any form of assistance while taking the exam either in person or through a digital platform  
• Using any devices during the exam such as a cell phon e 
• Attempting to duplicate, copy, or take screenshots of exam questions or answers   
• Leaving the computer during the exam  
• Manipulating and/or covering the camera during the exam  
Violation of these rules will be considered cheating, subject to the sanctions o utlined within the  USF Policy on Academic 
Integrity Policy  including an F on the assignment or an FF in the course.   
Course Policy on Acceptable Use of Genera 􀆟ve AI Tools  
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to foster a dynamic learning environment that encourages technological adaptation, 
innovative thinking, and the ethical use of AI resources in academic endeavors.  
Policy:  
1. Definition of Generative AI Tools : Generative AI t ools refer to any artificial intelligence -powered software, program or application 
that can generate content, including but not limited to text, visuals, music, and other creative outputs. Examples of these t ools 
include AI text generators, AI content rewr iters, AI graphic generators, etc.  
2. Permitted Use : The use of generative AI tools is permitted for course -related submissions, including assignments, projects, 
presentations, examinations, and other forms of assessment. However, students must responsibl y use these tools, adhering to the 
guidelines outlined in this policy. Generative AI tools may be used in weekly assignments and group projects, however generative 
AI tools are not to be used on unit  quizzes /exams  or discuss ion assignments.   
3. Student Responsibility : Students are responsible for appropriately us ing generative AI tools in their work. This includes: 1. Citing 
all AI -generated content used in their submissions. Use the  formatting option from USF Library Guide;  plea se state  explicitly how 
AI-generated content was used in your  submis sion.  
2. Demonstrating a deep understanding of the subject matter, not solely relying on AI -generated content. Cross -reference claims 
and statements with original sources and providing appropriate citations are expected.  
3. Using AI tools as a supplemen tal resource (i.e., as an editor), not as the primary means of completing assignments. [Here you can 
clearly articulate how you expect students to use generative AI tools]  
4. Understanding that generative AI tools, while powerful, are not infallible and c an produce misinformation or inaccurate results. 
Students are responsible for the accuracy of their submissions and must cross -verify the information produced by these tools with 
reliable sources.  
 
4. Violation Consequences : Misuse of AI tools, including use of AI that undermines the student learning objectives of the course or 
assignment, failing to cite AI -generated content, relying too heavily on AI for work completion  or submitting inaccurate information 
generated by AI tools, will be subject to academic penalties. Consequences may range from a reduction in an individual assign ment 
grade to larger academic sanctions per USF policy, depending on the severity of the viola tion ( USF Regula tion 3.027 ).  
5. Exceptions : If there are specific assignments where the use of AI tools is not appropriate, these will be clearly marked in the 
assignment guidelines. Students must adhere to these specific instructions.  
6. Questions and C larifications : If students are unsure whether a tool they wish to use qualifies as a generative AI tool, or if they 
have questions regarding the allowable use of such tools, they should consult with the course instructor before using it.  
 
Please see the university’s standard policies at:   
https://www.usf.edu/pro vost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx .   5 Campus Free Expression: The following statement was crafted as a suggested statement to include for courses that 
engage in discussions and instruction which students m ay find uncomfortable, unwelcome, disagreeable, or even 
offensive. These discussions are intended to be objective. Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual  Freedom Act” 
can be found online.  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, 
theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluate d. Consistent with these principles, this 
course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorseme nt of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by 
critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas 
are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and 
to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not m ean that you are required to 
believe it or agree with it.  
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on 
pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF 
has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any 
disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes 
every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so 
online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of  
resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please 
contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 
or va@admin.usf.edu . 
Turnitin.com:   
  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly 
and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of 
student papers that grows with e ach submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from  
turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used  in the assignment. For a more detailed look 
at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  