
ISM 3011, 3 Credit Hours
Information Systems in Organizations
On-Line Class (DL)
Fall 2023 – 072723 Updated

Instructor: Mack (Dug) Cooley					Office: Virtual 
E-Mail: 	cooleym@usf.edu				Office Telephone: None
							Office Hours: Virtual – Setup per request

PREREQUISITES: No courses required – CGS2100 - recommended.

COURSE DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this course is to teach Information Technology concepts and use Information Systems to enhance business processes. To assess, evaluate, and apply emerging Information Technology to business! 

COURSE TOPICS 
MIS‐ evaluate, implement and diagnosis.  
Data and Analytics  
Ethics and Professional Responsibility 
Evolving Security  
Collaboration software  
Visualization software 

COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES:
Upon successful completion of this course students will be able to: 
1. Explain the importance and application of Information Systems in functional areas of business. 
2. Propose solutions to business problems through use and implementation of Information Systems.  
3.Critically interpret quantitative evidence (such as graphs, tables, charts) to identify false claims, incorrect use of evidence, or contradictory statements 
4.Understand the security threats to which any business is subject to.  
5. Explain personal, legal, and ethical issues that are related to Information Systems.  
6. Understand Enterprise Systems organizations and business processes. 
7.  Develop an understanding of Artificial Intelligence, and Expert Systems.

TEXT AND MATERIALS:
Required: MIS, 10edition by Bidgoli. ISBN -13: 978-0-357-41869-7 Paperback – or eBook   Publisher: Cengage

CANVAS USE:
The class syllabus is posted in Canvas, an online course management system.  In this class Canvas will be used for (add specific information to your course).
Information on how to use Canvas is available at: http://usfsm.edu/elearning
Canvas is accessible via the myUSF online web portal, or directly at https://usflearn.instructure.com/. 
IMPORTANT: The Tableau assignment must be performed on a PC. The application will not work on Mac’s.
  

GRADING, EVALUATION AND ATTENDANCE POLICIES:  
Student performance will be evaluated based on exercises and assignments.  All assignments are expected to be turned in on time. Each assignment will be reviewed in class after the Due Date, and once it has been reviewed, late hand-ins will not be graded.





The relative weights for each of these components in determining the final grade are as follows:

      Quizzes                                              25%
      2 Tests (each 25% )                           50%
      Excel                                                 10%  
      Tableau                                             15%
      Total                                                 100%

A grade will be determined based on the total of possible points earned, as follows: 
A+: 100 – 98, A: 97 – 94, A-: 93 – 90
B+: 89 – 87, B: 86 – 83, B-: 82 – 80
C+: 79 – 77, C: 76 – 73, C-: 72 – 70
D+: 69 – 67, D: 66 – 63, D-: 62 – 60
F: below 60

USFSM AND USF SYSTEM POLICIES
Policies are available in the USFSM Catalog and at regulationspolicies.usf.edu
. 
A.	Academic Dishonesty:  The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavior.  Please review the USF System Regulation USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct.

B.	Academic Disruption: The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy. 

C.	Contingency Plans: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USFSM to suspend normal operations.  During this time, USFSM may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for each of their classes for course specific communication, as well as the USFSM website, their student email account, and MoBull messages for important general information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 992-4231 is updated with pre-recorded information during an emergency.  See the Campus Police Website for further information.

D.	Disabilities Accommodation:  Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of Accommodation.  Contact Information:  Disability Coordinator, 941-359-4714, disabilityservices@sar.usf.edu, http://usfsm.edu/disability-services/ 
		
E.	Fire Alarm Instructions:  At the beginning of each semester please note the emergency exit maps posted in each classroom.  These signs are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency Evacuation Procedures.

F.	Religious Observances:  USFSM recognizes the right of students and faculty to observe major religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes.  Instructors canceling class for a religious observance should have this stated in the syllabus with an appropriate alternative assignment.

Protection of Students Against Discrimination and Harassment:
Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting: USFSM is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004).
Other Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USFSM also is committed to providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 0-007).

The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report.

Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If a student discloses any of these situations in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally, he or she is required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or DIEO. The Deputy Coordinator for USFSM is Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Disability Services & Student Advocacy, 941-359-4714 or adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu.

Campus Resources:
Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941-487-4254
Victim Advocate (24/7) 941-504-8599

List of off-campus resources:
HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805
Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota: 941-365-1976
Centerstone: 941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059

H.   Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e-mail account.  Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.



GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS 
Academic Support Services: 
The Information Commons provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e-learning specialists. Students challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services (http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic-resources/information-commons/tutoring.aspx) which are provided at no cost to students. 

Career Success Center:
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career-services.






COURSE SCHEDULE:

COURSE DESCRIPTION AND SCHEDULE
(Updated 07/27/23)






















