MAN 6055: Organizational Behavior & Leadership
        CRN 81603		Section 521 	 3 Credit Hours
Muma College of Business, School of Information Systems & Management
COURSE SYLLABUS
Last Updated: 8/13/2023


Welcome!
This course is designed to help you better understand what drives the attitudes and behavior of people in organizations. This course will help you take the academic concepts and apply them to day-to-day work situations with the ultimate goal of helping you more effectively engage, motivate, and lead others.

University Course Description
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study of goals and means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general.

Course Prerequisites
Graduate Business majors only.

Course Purpose 
The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the various factors driving the attitudes and behavior of individuals in organizations. Using both theory and application, we will examine how principles underlying management and social and behavioral science can be used to effectively understand ourselves and each other. Ultimately, this course aims to help students more effectively work with and lead others. 

Student Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to: 
Remember and understand major theories, concepts, and principles related to the covered topics
Understand the importance of and connections among the covered topics
Analyze issues related to the covered topics within theoretical frameworks
Create and evaluate solutions (e.g., in case analyses and exercises) based on theories, principles, and research evidence. 
Apply the knowledge gained in class in their work lives.

Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials
TEXT: Robbins, S. P., & Judge, T. A. (2023) Organizational Behavior (19th Ed). Boston, MA: Pearson ISBN 0137477644
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.  

How to Succeed in this Course
Successful students should follow several practical tips before each online session:
Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements
Work from the Module page to see the expectations for each week. 
Attend all F2F classes, and refrain from checking your phone, email, or anything unrelated to class during active class time. 
If new to Canvas, read this guide

Instructor Contact Information and Communication 
The instructor will communicate information to the class primarily via Canvas using the course home page, announcements, emails, etc.  

The best way to reach the instructor is either via email at lpenney@usf.edu  or via Canvas. I check my email several times a day, and my goal is to respond within 24 hours. Occasionally, I do get behind or emails get buried in my inbox. In the event students do not get a response from me within 48 hours, I encourage sending me a friendly nudge as a reminder. 

Grading Scale

Final Grades will be based on students’ final point total per the grading criteria as follows:


NOTE ABOUT GRADES: Over the years, the meaning of grades has become distorted by grade inflation (the tendency of some teachers to give artificially high grades).  This has led many students to consider anything less than an “A” as unsatisfactory.  However, in this class, a “B” represents a good grade and “A’s” are reserved for truly extraordinary accomplishments.

Grade Categories and Weights 


Assignments

Chapter Quizzes (11 @ 5 pts each; 55 pts total)
Eleven online quizzes (true/false, multiple choice) will cover the assigned textbook chapters. Each quiz is worth 5 points and will be open-book. Due dates for each quiz are presented in the class schedule.  Quizzes that are not completed by the due dates listed in the schedule will receive a zero. 

Module Content Quizzes (9 @5 pts each; 45 pts total)
Each online module will contain a quiz covering the lecture videos and any the supplemental readings and media content for the module.  Due dates for each quiz are presented in the class schedule.  Quizzes that are not completed by the due dates listed in the schedule will receive a zero. 

Discussion Posts (4 @ 10 pts each; 40 pts total)
Details will be provided on the Canvas Module pages. Please see the module associated with each discussion post (see schedule below) for more information. 

Post-Class Reflection Assignments (4 @ 20 pts each; 30 pts total)
Research indicates that written reflection exercises help facilitate learning and concretize associations in memory. At the end of each class, students will be instructed to complete a brief written reflection assignment. The assignment consists of 4 general reflection questions about what students learned in each class. In addition to facilitating learning, the post-class reflection assignments will also serve as an opportunity for students to develop strategies to apply their new knowledge. The grading rubric is available on Canvas. Assignments that are not completed by the deadline will receive a zero. 

Behavior Analysis Reflections (3 @ 25 pts each; 75 pts total)
The purpose of these assignments is to provide students with an opportunity to demonstrate their ability to understand and apply various concepts from class in order to develop their social skills. To that end, these three behavior analysis reflection assignments will require you to reflect on and analyze your experiences with others and your own behavior applying concepts from class.  

OB Challenge to Workshop in Class (5 pts)
Students will be required to submit a brief description of a current OB challenge they are facing at work. During the last class meeting, students will break into groups to share and workshop the challenges to find possible solutions. 

Leadership Take-Aways Presentation (50pts)
The purpose of this assignment is for students to demonstrate their speaking skills and learning via a brief presentation (maximum 5 minutes). Details regarding this assignment can be found on Canvas.

Extra Credit Policy
Students may earn extra credit by participating in research studies coordinated by the Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation (CMSI) Lab. For every 15-minute study you complete, you will earn 1 point of extra credit toward your final grade. You can earn a maximum of 10 points of extra credit toward your final grade. See Canvas for more information.

Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination
Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one week of the posted deadline. Graded materials in this course will be returned individually via Canvas. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas.

Course Schedule
The instructor reserves the right to change the syllabus as necessary. Students are responsible for changes announced in class or through Canvas.




USF Core Syllabus Policies
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF. Be sure to review these online at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx  

Course Policies: Grades 

Late Work Policy: 
All assignments are due at class time on the date specified on the syllabus. Absolutely NO late papers or assignments will be accepted. Rare exceptions may be granted ONLY in the event of a verifiable emergency as determined by the professor. 

Extra Credit Policy
Students may earn extra credit by participating in research studies coordinated by the Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation (CMSI) Lab. For every 15-minute study you complete, you will earn 1 point of extra credit toward your final grade. You can complete up to two hours of research studies to earn a maximum of 10 points of extra credit toward your final grade. 

Grades of "Incomplete": 
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.

Campus Free Expression: 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. 

In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. 

Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.

Assignment Commentary Policy: 
Commentary on written assignments will be delivered in written format via Canvas. However, upon request, an alternate delivery method can be used. If desired, instructor comments will be made verbally and delivered to the student as an mp3 through Canvas. This approach yields far fewer written comments, but much more commentary in general is delivered, due to the speed and specificity of speech. Those requesting mp3 feedback must state so when the essay is turned in. 

Course Policies: Technology and Media 

Canvas: 
This course will use USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas to deliver assignments, course information, and grades. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974-1222 or help@usf.edu.

Course Policies: Student Expectations 

Title IX Policy: 
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking. The Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.  Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit: https://www.usf.edu/title-ix/gethelp/resources.aspx. If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813-974-5756 or va@admin.usf.edu.

	Course Hero / Chegg Policy: 
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy. 

Netiquette Guidelines: 
Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.  
Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read. 
Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for. 
Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  

Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:
Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about. 
Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor. 
Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.  

End of Semester Student Evaluations: 
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued. 


Learning Support and Campus Offices

Academic Accommodations
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota-Manatee campuses.
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.

Academic Support Services
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website.

Canvas Technical Support 
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
IT website for the Tampa campus.
IT website for the St. Pete campus.
IT website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Center for Victim Advocacy
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse 
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by 
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.

Counseling Center
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that 
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online. 
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

Writing Studio
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate 
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with 
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are 
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: writingstudio@usf.edu. 
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.
Writing studio website for the Sarasota-Manatee campus.

