






Semester: Fall 2023
MAN3025
Principles of Management
       CRN80943, SEC603
3 Credit hours Muma College of Business
Mondays & Wednesdays 2pm-3:15pm


COURSE SYLLABUS

Class Meeting Days: Tuesday & Thursday 
Class Meeting Time: 2:00-3:15 pm
Class Meeting Location: DAV105
Instructor: Dr. Genevieve Dobson
Office Location: DAV105 (Only Tues & Thurs after class) or by appointment Virtually (MS Teams)
Office Hours: T & R 3:15-3:30 pm on Campus / Virtual (MS Teams) by appointment 
Email: dobson2@usf.edu






Welcome!
I am very excited to be working with you this semester and can't wait to introduce you to Principles of Management. I hope you are ready for a great semester of learning, interacting, and fun! Principles of Management is a course that I hope will introduce you to several new and interesting topics that will help you now and throughout your career.

Your team of GTAs are excited to work with you as well. So please do not hesitate to reach out to your TA or myself, if we can be of any assistance to you. We are here to help you be successful in this course. To find out which GTA you are assigned to, please see the Meet the Instructor and GTA section.

University Course Description
Examines intrapersonal, interpersonal, group/team, organizational, and environmental (both stakeholder and societal) factors influencing the management task.

Course Prerequisites
There are no prerequisites for this course.

Course Purpose
This course will provide you with the foundations for understanding the role of management in an organization. This course will cover general areas such as planning, organizing, influencing, and controlling that are relevant for any industry. We will also review issues of management such as ethics, diversity, and social responsibility.

How to Succeed in this Course
Successful students use the following practical tips:
Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements. You can also have notifications of announcements sent to your USF email.
Use the Modules tab as your main page for knowing what is required for the course.
Close down other programs and apps before you begin working on the class material.
When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi. Especially for tests. Wifi can be unreliable and not effective for test taking.
Download and ensure you have HONORLOCK ready before you want to take the course tests. This will help reduce any frustrations based on time constraints.
If new to Canvas, go to this link (https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/resources/ computing/index.aspx) for information on USF Technologies.

Student Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course students will:
Understand the basic theories, concepts and effective behavioral practices that form the foundation of modern management thought.
Have explored how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, identity, culture rules and biases in relation to how they influence management of a workplace. (Self-awareness)
Be able to Identify and describe major global issues that impact businesses and management of those businesses. (Major global issues)
Have demonstrated the ability to apply key management concepts.

Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials
All assigned material on Canvas
Exploring Management-Seventh Edition By John R. Schermerhorn, Jr. and Daniel G. Bachrach
 Printable/Downloadable E-Book available in Canvas
Please note that the first day access comes with the connect link. This is where you will access the electronic book. 



Grading Scale








Grade Categories and Weights


In-Class Case Studies and Assignments
For descriptions of assignments, please see the modules tab on canvas site. The details for the assignment will be listed in the module in which the assignment is due. It will have all the details for you in the module in which the project/assignment is assigned.

Communication
There are several ways that you will be able to engage with your instructor, and your classmates. Your instructor can be reached during their office hours that are posted on the canvas site under Meet your Instructor. These office hours will be conducted via teams or directly after class.


Course Environment

Your Principles of Management team considers the diversity of its students to be a strength and an important component of a successful learning experience. As we prepare you to function at a level of excellence in the workplace, we need to ensure you embrace the strengths of that a diverse work environment has to offer you and your organization.
Additionally, the University of South Florida considers the diversity of its students, faculty, and staff to be a strength and critical to its educational mission. USF expects every member of the
university community to contribute to an inclusive and respectful culture for all in its classrooms, work environments, and at campus events.

Dimensions of diversity can include sex, race, age, national origin, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, intellectual and physical ability, sexual orientation, income, faith and non-faith
perspectives, socio-economic class, political ideology, education, primary language, family status, military experience, cognitive style, and communication style. The individual intersection of these experiences and characteristics is valued in our community.


The goal of our team and of the University is to help you be successful in a classroom where everyone feels safe and welcome.

Grade Dissemination
You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas. Grades will be posted by midnight after the due date except for the final GCA paper.









*The Schedule is subject to revision. Announcements will be emailed through canvas.

Global Citizens Paper
MAN3025 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements of the Global Citizen Award upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or higher). Even if you are not applying for the award, this project is part of the course. Please see Module for more details regarding assignment requirements.  
Course Policies: Grades Late Work:
You will receive 75% for work passed in up to 24 hours late. You will receive 50% for work passed in after 24 hours. To receive an excused late submission, you are to provide the professor with documentation to verify extenuating circumstances (hospitalization, death in the family). NO LATE MIDTERM OR FINAL EXAM ALLOWED WITHOUT DOCUMENTATION

Incomplete Policy:
An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade.

Basis for Grades:
The following is the summary of the requirements for this course. See Canvas for further detail.

Grades of "Incomplete":
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.

Extra Credit Policy: 
There will be extra credit opportunities available throughout the course to help you in challenge-based and real world learning experiences. The extra credit will be to the discretion of the instructor.

Course Policies: Technology and Media

Email: Class communications will happen through canvas email of the announcements section. Please be sure you are receiving your emails from canvas. If you email your TA or the instructor, you will receive a response within 24 (weekdays) - 48 hours (weekends). If you have not received a message, please feel free to follow-up with the individual.





6

Canvas: Canvas will be your main source of materials for this course. Please be sure to sign into the class canvas site. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974-1222 or help@usf.edu.

HONORLOCK: All students are to review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.

Online tests and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence are to be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.

Recordings: If you will record class sessions for use in this instance of the course using Microsoft Teams or other capture technology, this verbatim statement is required: 
In this class, software will be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. Students who prefer to participate via audio only will be allowed to disable their video camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss this option with your instructor. 

To avoid any concerns in this regard, students can select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.

Students are to ensure that any recordings do not invade any third-party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third-party privacy concerns.
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and high-speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. To use Honorlock, students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome extension. For additional information please visit the USF online proctoring student FAQ and Honorlock student resources.

Laptops: Laptops can be used in the classroom as long as it does not cause a disruption with other students ability to listen and learn. If it does become an issue the instructor can request the laptop not be used. Be prepared to take notes instead.

Phone Usage: Cellphones can only be used as a recording device or when the instructor requests you to utilize other online platforms for learning purposes.

Course Policies: Student Expectations

Course Hero / Chegg Policy:
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.

End of Semester Student Evaluations:
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.

Turnitin.com:

In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com.


Learning Support and Campus Offices

Tutoring Hub
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email asctampa@usf.edu

Writing Studio
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu

Counseling Center
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.

Center for Victim Advocacy
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.

Important Dates to Remember

Drop/Add Deadline:	August 25, 2023
Labor Day (No Classes):	September 4, 2023
Mid-term Exam	October 12, 2023
Last Day to Withdraw	October 28 , 2023
Veterans Day (No Classes)	November 10, 2023
Thanksgiving (No Classes)	November 23-24, 2023
Global Paper	November 30, 2023
Finals Week	December 2-7, 2023
Fall End of Term	December 7, 2023



Standard University Policies
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx

All students and instructors are encouraged to wear face coverings, at all times, during in- person classes. Per guidance from the CDC and Board of Governors, we expect that all members of our community will wear a mask on campus, vaccinated or unvaccinated. This is especially important while indoors, in crowded outdoor settings, if you have a weakened immune system or an underlying medical condition. Masks will be made available to anyone who needs one.

USF strongly urges all community members to get fully vaccinated. Vaccines are our most reliable means of preventing the spread of COVID-19. The vaccine is free, readily available, and all of USF’s faculty, staff, and students are of age to be eligible for the vaccine; therefore, if someone chooses not to be vaccinated, they are assuming significant risk, including isolation and quarantine. Vaccines are also the most reliable way to ensure that students do not face any disruption to their studies or social activities, and faculty and staff do not face disruption to their teaching, research, or university work.

It is critically important that individuals who feel unwell stay home and contact Student Health Services or their primary care provider for medical advice.

Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF Regulation 3.027.

Academic Grievance Procedure
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students.

Disability Access
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services (SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SAS is to accompany this request. Please visit the Student Accessibility Services website for more information.

Disruption to Academic Progress
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the academic process (USF Regulation 3.025) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of self or other persons.

Food and Housing Insecurity
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed-A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their website), or Student Outreach and Support (socat@usf.edu or their website).

Intellectual	Freedom	and	Viewpoint	Diversity	Act	(House	Bill	233) Preliminary Guidance Document
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually or part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty member is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student Conduct Code.

Religious Observances
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious observances, practices and beliefs (USF Policy 10-045). The University of South Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take
examinations as determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students are asked to review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the academic requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination, in accordance with this Policy.

Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF Policy 0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to the Title IX Office unless you request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy: 813-974-5757. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an educator, he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about Title IX, a full list of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking visit: usf.edu/title-ix

Statement of Academic Continuity
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course-specific communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages for important general information (USF Policy 6-010).
