MAN 6055: Organizational Behavior & Leadership
        CRN 82326		Section 030 	 3 Credit Hours
Muma College of Business, School of Information Systems & Management
COURSE SYLLABUS
Last Updated: 8/13/2023


Welcome!
This course is designed to help you better understand what drives the attitudes and behavior of people in organizations. Using both theory and application, we will examine how principles underlying management and social and behavioral science can be used to effectively understand ourselves and each other. Ultimately, this course aims to help you develop a competitive advantage in the way you engage, motivate, and lead others.

This is a highly interactive class that involves weekly break-out activities and in-class discussions. Students are encouraged to employ critical thinking and to rely on data and verifiable sources to interrogate all assigned readings and subject matter in this course as a way of determining whether they agree with their classmates and/or their instructor. No lesson is intended to espouse, promote, advance, inculcate, or compel a particular feeling, perception, viewpoint or belief. 

University Course Description
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study of goals and means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general.

Course Prerequisites
None

Student Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to: 
Understand major theories, concepts, and principles related to the covered topics
Understand the importance of and connections among the covered topics
Analyze issues related to the covered topics within theoretical frameworks
Create and evaluate solutions (e.g., in case analyses and exercises) based on theories, principles, and research evidence. 
Apply the knowledge gained in class in their work lives.

Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials
TEXT: Kinicki, A. (2021). Organizational Behavior: A Practical Problem-Solving Approach (3rd Ed). McGraw-Hill. ISBN 1264156200
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.  

Grading Scale

Final Grades will be based on students’ final point total per the grading criteria as follows:


NOTE ABOUT GRADES: Over the years, the meaning of grades has become distorted by grade inflation (the tendency of some teachers to give artificially high grades).  This has led many students to consider anything less than an “A” as unsatisfactory.  However, in this class, a “B” represents a good grade and “A’s” are reserved for truly extraordinary accomplishments.

Grade Categories and Weights


Assignments

Post-Class Reflection Assignments (7 @ 25 pts each; 150 pts total)
Research indicates that written reflection exercises help facilitate learning and concretize associations in memory. At the end of each class, students will be instructed to complete a brief written reflection assignment. The assignment consists of 4 general reflection questions about what students learned in each class. In addition to facilitating learning, the post-class reflection assignments will also serve as an opportunity for students to develop strategies to apply their new knowledge. The grading rubric is available on Canvas. Assignments that are not completed by the deadline will receive a zero. 

Values Assignment (25 points)
To develop greater awareness of our values and beliefs, students are required to submit a list of 5 values along with a brief description of what each value means to them. Detailed information about this assignment is available on Canvas. 

Personal Identity Web (25 points)
Now more than ever, it is critical for leaders to be aware of how culture, both macro- and micro-culture, influences their thoughts, values, and decisions. This assignment requires students to identify the various identities that influence their personal perspective or lens. Detailed information about this brief assignment is available on Canvas.

Feedback on Team Presentations (3 @ 25 pts each; 75 pts total)
To gain practice at providing meaningful and constructive feedback, students will provide ratings and written feedback on team presentations for other teams (i.e., not the team of which you are a member). The content and quality of feedback provided will be graded based on the degree to which it is specific, constructive, balanced, clear, and relevant to the grading criteria. The grading rubric is available on Canvas. 

Team Research Presentation (300 pts)
The research presentation will involve your team summarizing and discussing a recent (2013-2022) article.  In addition to explaining the article, a major objective is to integrate the ideas and findings from the article with other class material. The presentation will be 45-60 minutes long and may include slides, handouts, discussion, Q&A, and any other activities the team finds pertinent to thoroughly communicating the key points of the article and linking them to other class material.  Below is a recommended list of reputable sources:

Scientific Journals				Practitioner Journals 

Journal of Applied Psychology	Harvard Business Review	
Academy of Management Journal	Academy of Management Perspectives
Personnel Psychology		California Management Review
Journal of Management	Sloan Management Review

Presentations grades will have both a team and an individual component. The team component will be determined based on ratings provided by the instructor and the audience. The team presentation feedback form (see Canvas) identifies the criteria on which your team will be assessed by the class and instructor. Additionally, each individual in the team will be assessed by their peers (other team members).  The peer performance rating form can also be found on Canvas.

Course Schedule
The instructor reserves the right to change the syllabus as necessary. Students are responsible for changes announced in class or through Canvas.


Course Policies: Grades (as applicable)

Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination
Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one week of the posted deadline. Graded materials in this course will be returned individually via Canvas. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas.

Late Work Policy: 
All assignments are due at class time on the date specified on the syllabus. Absolutely NO late papers or assignments will be accepted. Rare exceptions may be granted ONLY in the event of a verifiable emergency as determined by the professor. 

Grades of "Incomplete": 
An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.

Course Policies: Technology and Media 

Canvas: 
This course will use USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas to deliver assignments, course information, and grades. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974-1222 or help@usf.edu.

Technology in Class (Cell phones, Laptops, Tablets, etc.): 
Although technology provides wonderful and powerful tools for managers, their presence in class is often a distraction and obstacle to learning. Thus, the use of laptops, cell phones, or other like technology during class time for non-class-related activity is STRONGLY DISCOURAGED unless otherwise noted by the instructor (e.g., during certain class activities).  Students are welcome to use their tech for non-class-related activities before and after class and during breaks. 

Course Policies: Student Expectations 

Attendance Policy: 
This course is largely experiential and will include a lot of discussion and in-class activities. Therefore, students are expected to attend and participate in class. During class, students should be prepared to discuss the weekly reading material, as well as their own work-related insights and experiences with the class to illustrate points.  Students can learn a tremendous amount of from each other’s insights and experiences.  

Professionalism Policy: 
Students are expected to arrive for class on time and to conduct themselves in a professional manner, be courteous to and considerate of other class members, and avoid disrupting class activities.  We can have fun and be respectful of others.   

Mindfulness is a meta-cognitive practice that can facilitate the development of greater presence, skillful observation, critical thinking, and wise action and response. This is in contrast to the typical knee-jerk reactions we have in response to the people and situations we encounter. Every class will begin with a 5-minute group mindfulness practice using the Headspace App. Students are strongly encouraged to participate or to at least respect those who do by remaining silent during the practice or waiting outside in the hall until the class has finished if arriving late.

Campus Free Expression: 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. 

In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. 

Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.

USF Core Syllabus Policies
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic integrity and grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all courses at USF. Be sure to review these online at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core-syllabus-policy-statements.aspx  

