1  Course  Prefix  Number  Course  
Title  
CRN, Section #, Credit Hours  
College  Name,  Department  
Name  
   
     
 
   
 
Professor:  Dr. Timothy  Papp   E-Mail:  tpapp@usf.edu  
TA/GA:  TA/GA  name  (if applicable)  E-Mail:  TA/GA  E-mail  
Term:  Fall 2023 Dates:  8/17/23-12/7/23  
Delivery  
Method:  In Person  
Thursday   6:30-9:15PM Location:  BSN  
TBD 
Minimum  
Technical  
Skills &  
Requiremen
ts: You must  have  reliable  internet  access  and the capability  to use Canvas.  This 
requires computer resources so  you should make  sure  you can use Canvas.  
Office  
Hours:  To be arranged . I will also make myself available before and  after  each  class 
for questions.  
  
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome  to MAN  4402.  
 
THIS SYLLABUS IS ONLY A GENERAL GUIDE AND IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE DEPENDING ON HOW 
I FEEL THE CLASS IS PROGRESSING AND IF I THINK SOMETHING SHOULD BE ADDED  TO, OR 
DELETED FROM , THE CLASS.  YOU WILL ALWAYS GET A CANVAS NOTIFICATION IF 
SOMETHING IS GOING TO BE CHANGED OR HA S CHANGED .   
  
BECAUSE OF MY TRAVEL SCHEDULE, A FEW OF THE CLASSES WILL BE ONLINE (TEAMS).  
 Video and/or Audio recording of the class, or classroom discussions, is neither authorized nor permitted without my express prior approval.  
 
II. University  Course  Description:   
This course covers Federal and state laws and regulations such as wage and hour laws; EEO; affirmative action programs; employee benefits; insurance; workers' compensation, safety , 
health, employee's personal rights and collective bargaining.  
III. Course  Prerequisites  
Course  requirement: Business Majors Only.  
IV. Course  Purpose :   
In this course you will learn the concepts of Employment Laws as they apply to businesses 
MAN  44402  
Employment Laws  
CRN  80617, 3 Credit  Hours  
Muma  College  of Business,  School  of Marketing  and 
Innovation  
COURSE  SYLLABUS  2  and employees, which will help you understand that the employment laws in the United 
States are designed to protect the employee, but they also provide clarity and di rection for 
the employer. They are often changed to reflect recent events in society. There are laws and expectations that all employers should follow in the workplace. We will examine the role of federal and state laws covering employment practices, inclu ding discrimination and fair 
treatment, selection and termination, accommodations, tort liability, and privacy issues.  I am hopeful that this will benefit all of you as you progress in your careers.  As the course develops,  more  analyses  via assignments will occur,  using  the classroom (virtual or in person  
depending  on the  mode  of delivery)  situation as  a forum for discussion.  Information  
presented in the first half of the course, as well as from previous courses should provide  you 
with various frameworks within which to view and discuss the various topics and  
assignments.  
 
V. Instructor  Contact Information and Communication  
 
Communication  in this class  will be frequent and only on CANVAS . Ideally  you should  be 
checking and  accessing  email and Canvas  daily, but  at a minimum  at least  multiple  times  per 
week.  
 
Outside of the classroom (physical or virtual) please contact me using my tpapp@usf.edu  
email address.  Using canvas to email me could cause delays as it is not uncommon for emails 
to get lost in cyberspace when using the Canvas mail function.  So, make sure to  contact  me 
email- to-email as opposed to using  Canvas. 
 
When  emailing  me please  include  your  section  number  and full name.  Please  send  emails  in 
a professional  format  and refrain  text message  style forms of  communication.  
 
VI. First  Week Attendance  Policy  
Per USF policy first day attendance is required.  If you attend class but miss this portion of 
class I may not know it. Y ou need to notify me that you attended but missed roll call or  you 
will be considered  absent and dropped  from  the course.  
 
VII. How  to Succeed  in this Course  
The best  way to  succeed  in this class  is to attend the lectures and  remain  up to date  on all 
material and assignments.  This means you are aware of all deadlines (including exam dates) 
and prepare accordingly.  I will provide exam reviews in class and plenty of class  time w ill be 
provided to give additional guidance on the projects as well.  Another key is  asking  questions.  
If you are confused,  please  ask. I am here  to help you learn.  
 
VIII. Course  Structure  
This course  will be delivered  in a traditional  face  to face  format.  YOU R ATTENDANCE IN 
CLASS IS NECESSARY FOR YOU TO PASS THIS COURSE .  If you miss more than two ( 2) classes, 
I reserve the right to deduct 2 ½% off your final grade for every missed class beyond two.   
 
Due to my work and travel schedule, w e will have a couple  virtual classes in the semester .  3  I will try to have a substitute in- person professor but we will likely be virtual.  Attendance is  
still required  when we do a virtual session  – CAMERAS ON!    
 
IX. Course  Topics  
Include  (but not limited  to): 
Employment Relationship 
Types of Authority  
Duties of Employees and Contractors   
Employer Duties  
Various Agreements   
Selection Processes   
Investigation and Record Keeping  
 
Please note the distinction between two seemingly related terms which apply to the presentation.  
 
Case Law - Case law is a court case which went to trial.  There was either a decision in favor oof one 
of the parties or a settlement.  It may or not be a “landmark” case, but may establish some level of precedent.  
 Case Study-  A case study i s an example of a topic or issue that took place in a corporate setting.  It 
might be a remedial or a preventive program.  But, in general, there are no direct court proceedings 
involved 
 
 
X. Student Learning  Outcomes  
 The learning objective of this course is to acquire content knowledge of the field of 
employment law, to be able to anticipate challenges in the  workplace posed by either an 
employer’s existing policies, an aggrieved employee, or a change in the law. Mastery of the 
subject will enable s tudents to identify whether proposed or existing employer policies, or 
actions are legal.  
XI. Required  Course  Materials  
Employment Laws , New Challenges in the Business Environment, sixth edition, J ohn Jude 
Moran.  You must  have  the exact  ISBN  number  or you will likely have  the wrong  and/or 
missing  content  in your  book.  
 
XII. Supplementary  (Optional)  Texts  and Materials  
Unless otherwise  indicated,  all materials  in Canvas  are required.  
 
XIII. Grading  Scale  
 
94-100 = A  
90-93= A - 
87-89 = B+ 
84-86 = B  
80-83 = B - 
70-79 = C  
Below 70 is an F.  4   
XIV. Grade  Categories  and Weights  
 
Assessment  Percent  of Final  
Grade  
Attendance – 100 points  10% 
Assignments – 600 points  (6 x 100 points each)  30% 
Midterm Exam – 500 points  30% 
Final Exam – 500 points  30% 
  
Total  1600  points  100%  
 
XV. Graded Components  Including  Assignments  and Exams  
 
Assignments  – throughout the semester, there will be reading/writing assignments.  You 
will be graded on your demonstrated ability to comprehend the text, write,  and submit a 
paper keeping within the requirements set forth.  
 
Exams  - You will be responsible for all material covered.  This includes the applicable 
chapters of the book in addition to whatever is discussed in class.  All exams will be made up 
of multiple -choice questions  and all exams  will be timed.  As such  a specific  window of time  
will be provided  when completing exams.  
 
There will be two exams in this course.  The specific dates and times of the exam are  
provided  in the assignment  schedule  of the syllabus.  Exams  are not comprehensive  and each 
one will cover material from chapter readings, case readings, and of course the  chapter  
lectures.  
 
XVI. Instructor  Feedback  Policy  & Grade  Dissemination  
 
I aim to provide  feedback on all assignments  as quickly  as possible.  However,  the range  of 
time needed varies greatly based on the type of assignment, quality of submissions, as  well 
as whether other pressing responsibilities that exist after submission deadlines.  For 
example, if a week is full of department and college meetings it will take longer for feedback.  
Typically, exam scores are posted within a few days.  Feedback on major projects may take 
up to three weeks or longer as these can be very time consuming to  grade.  All grades are 
posted in Canvas and I make sure to keep students informed as to  my expected  timeframe  
for feedback.  
 
   
COURSE SCHEDULE FOLLOWS5  XVII. Course  Schedule  
 
W
K DATE  ASSIGNMENT  SCHEDULE  TEXT   
1  Syllabus, Introduction, and Overview of Employment Law  
Employment Relationship & Selection  
First Assignment –  Pick a case from the end of the chapter 1 or 2 (due 
next week)   
Chapter   
 1 & 2  
2    Testing , Privacy, Theft and Whistle -Blowing  
We will discuss the cases from the end of Chapter 1 and 2.  
 Chapter  
3 & 4 
 
3    Termination and Alternative Dispute Resolution  
Case discussion from the end of Chapter 3  & 4. 
2nd Assignment –  Pick a case from the end of Chapter 3 or 4. (due next 
week)  Chapter   
5 & 6 
 
 
4  Civil Rights Act and Affirmative Action  
 
Guest Professor –  (tentative)  
  Chapter  
7 & 8  
 
 
 
5  Racial Discrimination , Sexual Discrimination  & Sexual Harassment  
 
Case discussion from the end of Chapters 5- 8 
 3rd Assignment – Pick a case from the end of Chapter from any prior 
chapters. (due next week)  Chapter  
9 - 11 
 
 
6  Pregnancy Discrimination and FMLA  
Case discussion from the end of Chapters 9 -12 
Exam  Review  Chapter  12 
& Midterm 
exam review  
7   Midterm Exam; Covers  Chapters  1-12 Lectures  and Case  Readings  
Multiple Choice Exam –  online and proctored   
No other class this day.   
Midterm 
Exam  
8  Sexual Orientation  and Religious Discrimination  
4th Assignment – Pick a case from the end of the chapter 9 -14 (due next 
week)  Chapter  
13 & 14  
 
9  National Origin  Discrimination, Age Discrimination  
Case discussion from the end of Chapters 13 & 14 . Chapter   
15 & 16  
 
10  Disability Discrimination , Unions and Collective Bargaining  
 
Case discussion from the end of Chapters 1 5 & 16  Chapter  
    17 & 18  6   
11  Wage and Hour Regulation & OSHA  
Case Discussions from the end of Chapters 17 & 18  
5th Assignment – Pick a case from the end of Chapter from any prior 
chapters. (Due next week)  Chapter  
 19 & 20 
12  Workers’ Compensation & Employee Benefits  
 
6th assignment - Pick a case from the end of the chapter 15- 22 (due next 
week)  Chapter  
21 & 22 
13  Catch -up day for semester  
 
 Catch -up 
Day 
14  Final  Exam  Review ; Covers Chapters 13-22 Lectures and Case 
Readings  
 
 Semester 
wrap -up & 
final exam 
review  
 15  Final  Exam; Covers Chapters 13-22 Lectures and Case Readings  
 
Multiple Choice Exam –  online and proctored   
 
  No other class this day.   
   Final Exam  
* Note:  The Schedule  is subject to revision  7   
XVIII. USF Standard University  Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity  
and misconduct,  academic continuity,  food  insecurity,  and sexual  harassment  are governed  by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at:  
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
Academic  Integrity  
 
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the  
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is  
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairne ss. Broadly  
defined,  academic  honesty  is the completion  of all academic  endeavors  and claims  of scholarly  
knowledge  as representative  of one’s  own  efforts.  The process  for faculty  reporting  of 
academic  misconduct,  as well as the student’s  options  for appeal,  are outlined  in detail  in USF 
Regulation 3.027.  
 
Academic  Grievance Procedure  
 
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking  
courses  at the University  of South  Florida  an opportunity  for objective  review  of facts  and 
events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that 
a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status  has 
violated  published  policies  and procedures,  or has  been  applied  to the grievant  in a manner  
different from that used  for other  students.  
 
Disability  Access  
 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services  (SAS) 
(SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to  notify  
instructors  of accommodation  needs  at least  five (5) business  days prior to needing  the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit the Student  
Accessibility  Services  website  for more  information.  
 
Disruption  to Academic  Progress  
 
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the  
academic  process  (USF  Regulation 3.025) is  defined as the act, words,  or general conduct  of a 
student in a classroom or other  academic  environment  which  in the reasonable  estimation  of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy  
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic  
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety,  or well-
being  of self or other  persons.  
 
 
 8  Food  and Housing  Insecurity  
 
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in  
affording  sufficient groceries  may  be at risk of these  financial  issues affecting  their  performance  in 
classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their  
website),  or Student  Outreach  and Support  (socat@usf.edu or their  website).  
 
Religious  Observances  
 
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious  
observances,  practices,  and beliefs  (USF  Policy 10 -045).  The University  of South  Florida,  through 
its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in  view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities  comprising 
USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take examinations  as determined 
by the university. No student shall be compe lled to attend class or sit for an  examination at a day 
or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students should  review the course 
requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as  excessive absences 
in each  term  may prevent a student from completing the academic  requirements of a specific 
course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the  beginning of each academic term 
if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination,  in accordance  with  this Policy.  
 
Sexual  Misconduct  / Sexual  Harassment  
 
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence (USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential re source where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender - based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This  confidential  
resource  can help  you without  having  to report  your  situation to either  the Office  of Student Rights 
and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), 
unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and 
under the USF Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual  harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any 
of these situations in class, in papers, or personally to an educator, he or she is required to report  
it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation.  Contact  the USF Center  for Victim  Advocacy:  813- 974-5757.  
 
Statement  of Academic  Continuity  
 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations.  During  
this time,  USF may  opt to continue  delivery  of instruction through methods  that include,  but are 
not limited to: Learning Management System, online conferencing, email messaging,  and/or an 
alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor the Learning  Management 
System for each class for course -specific communication, and the main USF,  College, and 
Department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information (USF 
Policy 6 -010). For additional guidance on emergency protective action s and  hazards  that affect  
the University,  please  visit www.usf.edu/em  9  XIX. Course  Policies:  Grades  
 
Late  Work  Policy : 
Make -ups for exams are at the discretion of the professor and require appropriate  
documentation. Other than providing documentation for an emergency situation, all make -up 
exams  requests  require  advance  notice.  Further,  the burden  of proof  for a make -up falls on the 
student.  Do not request a make -up exam without  appropriate  documentation.  All other  
assignments (not including extra credit) turned in late will be assessed a 25% penalty if within 59 
minutes of the deadline.  If between 1 hour and 24 hours late, a 50% penalty will be  assessed.  
After 24 hours late no work will be accepted for credit.  The submission times  recorded in Canvas 
will be utilized for all late work penalties.  If you have Canvas issues and the  deadline is close, you 
should email your completed work immediately and then finish your  submission process.  I will 
only grade papers submitted through Canvas.  The email will only  serve  to demonstrate  you 
attempted to submit  your  work  on time.  
 
Extra  Credit  Policy : 
An extra credit opportunity may be provided.  If so, all students will have an e qual opportunity  to 
earn  the same  level  of extra  credit  as all other  student regardless  of the pre-existing  grade  in the 
class.  No late submissions are  allowed  with regards to  extra  credit.  
 
Grades  of "Incomplete" : 
 
An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only when  
students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances  
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade  
Contract  Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the  
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be  
negotiated and extended  by student/instructor  as long  as it does  not exceed  two semesters  for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades  were  
due for that course.  An "I" grade not  cleared within  the two semesters  for undergraduate  courses 
and one semester for graduate courses ( including summer semester) will revert to the  grade  
noted on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : 
Students  have  the opportunity  to get feedback  before  assignments  are turned in for a grade.  Thus,  
no rewrites  for a grade  revision  are provided.  
 
Make -up Exams  Policy : 
If a student cannot be present for an examination for a valid reason (validity to be determined  by 
the instructor), a make -up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor  in 
advance that s/he cannot be present for the exam and the reason for missing is deemed  
appropriate (ex. illness, death in the family, etc.).  Keep in mind that work and social  engagements  
are not valid  excuses for missing an exam.  If a make -up exam  is given,  it will be at the convenience  
of the  instructor  and will likely  be in essay format.  10   
Exam  Retention  Policy : 
For online exams, the exams will be retained in Canvas until IT deletes the course from my  records  
(typically  every  two years).  For in person  exams  I retain  the exams  for one year  and then they are 
destroyed.  
XX. Course  Policies: Technology  and Media (as applicable)  
 
See Course  policies  below.  
 
XXI. Course  Policies:  Student Expectations  
 
Websites  that enable  Cheating  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable  
cheating, such as by uploading or downlo ading material for this purpose. This does apply  
specifically to CourseHero.com as well as other similar websites –  any use of these types of  
websites  (including  uploading  materials)  constitutes  a violation  of the academic  integrity  policy.  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors  may 
use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as  well as 
an enormous  database  of student  papers  that grows  with  each  submission.  Accordingly,  you will 
be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is  processed, as 
the instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work 
was used in the a ssignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit  
http://www.turnitin.com . All written  assignments are due in Canvas  and will utilize  Turnitin.  
Since Turnitin creates a large repository of papers to compare submissions, to protect your  
privacy you will not be required to include your name on the file submitted.  Obviously I will be  
able to identify you because you are submitting these individually in the USF Canvas system and  
the submission is  linked  to your name  (Turnitin does not retain  this information).  
 
End of Semester  Student  Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the  University 
regarding the course. The se surveys will be made available at the end of the  semester,  and the 
University  will notify  you by email when the response  window opens.  Your  participation  is highly 
encouraged  and valued.  
 
Netiquette  Guidelines:  
1. Act professionally in  the way you communicate.  Treat  your  instructors  and peers  with 
respect,  the same  way you would do in a face -to-face  environment.  Respect  other  
people’s  ideas  and be constructive  when  explaining  your  views  about  points  you may  not 
agree  with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There  
will be people in  your  class  with  different linguistic  backgrounds,  political  and religious  
beliefs  or other  general differences.  11  3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread  on 
a discussion board will allow  you to make  sure  your  message  is clear  and thoughtful  (and  
understood).  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before  
changing  the subject.  By keeping  the message  on focus  you allow  the readers  to easily  
get your  idea  or answers  they are  looking for.  
5. Be clear  with your  message.  Avoid  using  humor  or sarcasm.  Since  people  can’t  see your  
expressions or hear  your  tone  of voice,  meaning  can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  and Discussion  Board  Guidelines:  
1. Use the subject line effectively  by using  a meaningful line of what  your  email  or 
discussion is about.  
2. Keep  your  emails  and postings  related to  the course  content.  You should not post 
anything  personal on a discussion  board,  unless  is requested  by the instructor.  
3. Any personal,  course  or confidential  issues  should  be directly  communicated  to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues  
should not  be posted  there.  
 
XXII. Course  Technology  & Student Support  
 
Academic  Accommodations:  
Students  with  disabilities  are responsible  for registering  with  Students  with Disabilities  Services  
(SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about  academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at  http://www.usf.edu/student-
affairs/student- disabilities -services/  . 
 
Academic  Support Services:  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance  
undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at - 
http://www.usf.edu/student- success/  
 
Canvas  Technical  Support:  
If you have  technical  difficulties  in canvas,  you can find  access  to the canvas  guides and video  
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also  contact  
the help  desk  by calling  813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing  help@usf.edu.  12  XXIII. Important Dates  to Remember  
 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  
 
August 17  Fall State employee registration at 5 p.m.  
August 18  Last day to register for Fall classes without late registration fee penalty  
August 21  Fall classes begin  
August 25 Fall drop/add ends; fee liability/tuition payment deadline  
Last day to submit Fall re sidency reclassification applications  
Last day to add a major for Fall 2023 term  
August 28  Fall Senior Audit registration  
  
September 4  Labor Day holiday; no classes & USF offices closed  
September 18  Fall graduation application deadline  
  
October 2  Fall midterm grading opens  
October 17  Fall midterm grading closes  
October 23  Fall final grading opens  
October 28  Fall last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty  
October 30  Spring registrati on for degree -seeking students begins  
  
November 10  Veterans Day holiday (observed); no classes & USF offices closed  
November 23 & 24  Thanksgiving holiday; no classes & USF offices closed  
November 25 - December 1  Test Free Week  
November 27  Non-degree registration begins for Spring  
  
December 1  Fall classes end  
December 2 - 7 Fall Final Exam Week  
December 7  Fall end of term  
December 8 - 10 Fall Commencement  
 
 