 
         1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester: Fall 2023 
Class Meeting Days  and Time : No weekly meeting time requirements; 100% online  
Instructor:  Dr. Lu Kong  
Office Location:  Muma College of Business, USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus , SMC -C214C 
Office Hours:  By appointment  through MS Teams  
Phone Number:  (941) 359 -4669  
Email:  kongl@usf.edu   
 
 
VERY IMPORTANT!!!  
Starting this semester, the Bellini Certification Program, level 3, will be included in ALL sessions 
of QMB 3200.  
 
Bellini Certification Program Introduction  
The Bellini Certification Program is designed to increase your internships and post -graduation 
job placement in roles graduates want, with employers they want to work for.  Given the 
importance of student career success, Program elements are incorporated into curriculum in 
four Levels, beginning Fall semester, 2023.  Students will also be guided by a team of advisors 
who help them chart their course and gain the skill set and internships they need to achieve 
their goals.  
Starting with the Introduction to Bellini Center and Certification Program, you will engage with 
the content in Canvas as incorporate d by your professor.  You’ll also see an Introduction to 
Level 3, which explains the purpose and content of the activities, and a Canvas page with an 
estimated time for completion for each step.  As you progress through each activity and 
assignment you wil l see an introduction and brief instructions for their completion.  If you 
have questions about the Certification Program please use this link to support resources and 
individual support as needed.  
You may wonder why professional development content is inc luded as part of a Stats II course, 
and that’s a logical question.  The Dean of the Muma College of Business has directed that 
Program content be incorporated into required curriculum and QMB 3200 is generally taken in 
the third year.  We believe you will find that the Program content and activities will be QMB 3200:  
Business and Economic Statistics II  
CRN 82203 , Section 522,  
3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business , School of ISM  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  (Draft)  
Last Updated: 7/25/2023  
 
 
2 beneficial to your professional and career development and encourage you to engage deeply 
with the content in Canvas, and the Bellini Program.  
 
The completion of Bellini Certification Program , level 3, i s required in our class. It will account 
for 5% of your total grades . Please refer to the grade section for more details.   
   
 
3 Note:  This is a 3 -credit hour course. A 3 -credit hour course means, 3 hours per week of in -class 
instruction over 16 -week semester. Time for course preparation and reading assignments; and 
time for completing homework assignments, quizzes, and exams will be ext ra (out -side of 
instructional time) just like any other course students take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to a new semester. In this “Business and Economic Statistics II” 
course, you will learn critical thinking, problem solving, analytical skills tha t would help 
you throughout your career in business and industry. The purpose of QMB 3200 is to help 
students in acquiring skills to apply statistical tools and techniques in business analytics 
and decision making in various business environments. This cou rse integrates Excel into 
the course When mastered, and through practice and experience, these skills can help get 
into high paying jobs.   
 
II. University Course Description  
Simple linear regression and correlation; multiple regression and model building; 
forecasting models; analysis of variance; chi -square tests; nonparametric methods.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
MAC 2233 / MAC 2241, QMB 2100   
 
IV. Course Purpose   
QMB 3200 is the second course in Statistics. It builds upon the foundation established in 
your first course in Statistics (QMB 2100 or its equivalent). The purpose of QMB 3200 is to 
prepare students to appreciate the role statistics plays in business analytics and decision 
making. In particular, the course emphasizes and prepares students to “lear n”, 
“interpret”, and “be ready to apply” the concepts and methods, rather than learn 
calculations alone.  This is a Business Foundation course with a minimum “C -“ grade is 
required ( https://catalog.usf.edu/content.php?catoid=13&navoid=1486#college -level -
requirements ). 
 
V. How to Succeed in this Course   
 
Successful students should follow several practical tips before each meeting : 
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements  
2. Watch the course videos and read the readings on time  
3. Take the sample test (if your instructor provides one) to become familiar with the 
controls, whe re to find the test parameters (such as multiple attempts vs. single 
attempt), and how to submit individual questions and the final test submission.  
4. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
5. Get help.   
a. Tutoring from USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus Academic Success Center (ASC): 
- Book a slot online at:  
https://www.sarasotamanatee.usf.edu/academics/academic - 
 
4 resources/tutoring.aspx. Select tutor JoAnn Stolarski and schedule an 
appointment.  
b. Book an appointment with the instructor: kongl@usf.edu  
 
VI. Course Topics  
• Quick Review of Concepts and Topics ( Probability Distributions, Estimation, and 
Hypothesis Testing) from QMB 2100 that are important for QMB 3200 – to be covered 
if required to help students catch -up, depending on the need at individual campuses  
• Categorical Data Analysis – Chi-square Tests  
• Analysis of Variance  
• Simple Linear Regression  
• Multiple Regression  
• Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
 
Course Objectives:  
Through this course, students would develop a working knowledge and expertise on how 
to apply statistical methods on business problems . In particular, students will be able to:  
1. Strengthen fundamentals, formulate hypothesis from the problem statement, and 
learn to perform analyses,  
2. Interpret statistical results generated from a selected software program and 
communicate the findings in si mple terms to the decision -maker.  
3. Identify opportunities for and learn to apply statistical tests on Categorical data such 
as contingency analysis and goodness of fit tests  
4. Explain the basis and apply Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) techniques on data from 
experiments/observational studies in business  
5. Identify application opportunities and learn to perform simple linear and multiple 
regression analyses, extract valuable information, and apply the results for predictions 
and improved business decision -making  
6. Analyze Time -series patterns and learn to apply forecasting methods for various 
business applications  
 
VII. Student Learning Outcomes  
At the conclusion of the course students should be able to:  
1. Develop hypothesis from a problem statement, choose an appropriate statistical 
technique to apply given the problem context, perform the analysis; and most 
importantly, interpret the reports/results, and develop well -reasoned and evidence -
based conclusions  
2. Learn to perform hypotheses tests on categorical data using Chi -Square goodness of 
fit tests and tests of independence  
3. Understand the principles of designed experimentation, identify an appropriate 
experimental design to perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) on data from 
experimental/observational studies; develop hypothe sis statements, perform the  
 
5 analysis, understand, and interpret ANOVA output from a select software; and 
develop conclusions  
4. Develop both simple and multiple regression models from given data, understand and 
interpret regression analysis output from a sele ct software package, test hypotheses 
and infer relationships between variables, and make predictions on response.  
5. Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series data, select appropriate 
forecasting techniques given the pattern, develop forecasts and forecast accuracy 
measures to identify the best forecasting method    
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials ; Tools and Software  
• Statistics for Business & Economics | 14th Edition by David R. Anderson/Dennis J. 
Sweeney/Thomas A. Williams/Jeffr ey D. Camm/James J. Cochran/Michael J. 
Fry/Jeffrey W. Ohlmann , CENGAGE, ISBN: 978 -1-337-90106 -2 
[After a very quick review of topics from Statistics I (Chapters 1 -9), the primary focus 
of QMB 3200 will be on: Chapters 12, 13, 14, 15, and 17]  
You can buy a new textbook, a used copy, rent it, or buy an eBook – whatever works 
best  for you.  
• Course material (Word documents) by Dr. Anurag Agarwal, Dr. Ramakrishna 
Govindu, and Dr. Kwangtae Park  (to be uploaded to Canvas each week).  
• In this section of the course we use “Microsoft Excel” extensively.  If you don’t have 
Microsoft Office on your system, as a student of USF you are allowed free download 
and installation of Microsoft Office for personal use. Check out the info at: 
https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -download.aspx . Usage 
of other spreadsheet applications such as Google Sheets will not be acceptable.  
• We will use Canvas for class announcements, materials, assignments, quizzes, and 
take home exams. It is the students’ responsibility to check frequently on Canvas for 
assignments due dates, announcements, etc. Information on how to use Canvas is 
available at: http://usf sm.edu/elearning . Canvas is accessible at http://learn.usf.edu .        
 
IX. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Additional supplementary documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed  for the 
benefit of students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge.  
However, students will not be tested on the content.  
 
X. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)   
96.50 – 100%  A+  
91.50 – 96.49%  A  
89.5 0 – 91.49%  A-  
86.50  – 89.49%  B+  
81.50  – 86.49%  B  
79.5 0 – 81.49%  B-   
 
6 76.50  – 79.49%  C+  
71.50  – 76.49%  C  
69.5 0 – 71.49%   C-  
66.5 – 69.49%  D+  
61.50  – 66.49%  D  
59.5 0 – 61.49%  D-  
0 – 59.49%  F  
 
It is mandatory that students must take BOTH  exams (mid -term and final) to be held in 
order to earn a final grade in the course. Students who do not attempt either  exam will be 
assigned an “F” grade .  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be 
entertained .  
 
XI. Grade Categories and We ights  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
Homework  Assignments (Individual Task)  25% 
Online Quizzes  (Individual Task)  20% 
Exam #1 (Midterm Exam ) (Individual Task)  25% 
Exam #2 (Final Exam ) (Individual Task)  25% 
Level 3 Bellini Program  5% 
Total  100%  
 
 
XII. Additional Details on the Course Assignments  and Grading Policies  
 
COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Online  course participation is mandatory on all weeks during the semester. The nature of 
the course is such, and there is also strong evidence that students who participate in the 
course every week regularly end up learning the subject matter better and earn good 
grades. Students must engage themselves in the course through active participation, and 
practice solving as many problems as possible . Since Quizzes and Homework assignments 
are all announced at the beginning of the semester along with their deadlines on Canvas  
in the syllabus ; they are due by the deadline indicated irrespective of whether you 
missed a class due to various reasons. There will be NO allowances, concessions, or 
make -up work be given for missed HW Assignments and Quizzes . Missed HW 
Assignments and Quizzes will be assigned zero points . Exams are due as indicated in the 
schedule. No make -up exams will be given for any one for any reason.  There will be NO 
opportunity for extra credit. Students don’t need to do any extra work, all that they 
have to do is just complete the work assigned as indicated on time and every time .  
  
 
7 HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:  
All homework assignments are individual tasks. Every week  (starting week 2) , homework 
will be due on Monday at 11:59 pm  on Canvas.  Please use Microsoft Excel  to solve your 
homework problems. In the Excel file you submitted to Canvas, please show your work  
process . If you only provide the final answer without any work process shown, you will 
receive zero point even if your answer is correct.   
 
Please s ubmit you r report as an Excel file on Canvas before the due date and time 
indicated. Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED and for solving HW problems. If Excel is not 
used (along with Excel functions and Excel Data AnalysisToolpak options), zero points 
will be recorded for  the HW assignment.  
 
The deadline to submit your homework assignments is FIRM. NO late assignments will be 
accepted.  There will be no extensions of homework assignments due dates. No email or 
hard -copy submissions are accepted. HW report must demonstrate s tudent’s own work . If 
any HW reports are found to be copied, all the students who helped and/or received 
help shall be treated as violators, will receive zero points, and be reported for academic 
dishonesty.  Solutions for HW assignments will be made available . It is the students’ 
responsibility to compare solutions provided with your own answers and learn from the 
same in preparation for exams. If you have any questions or need help, you MUST seek 
help from the instructor or as needed for your own ben efit. Please remember that solving 
Homework Assignments on your own is the most important step in preparing for exams.   
 
Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, 
tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Submitting work of tutors and classmates (as your own), and reports from 
tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Violators will receive zero poi nts and be reported for academic dishonesty. 
Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies.     
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS AND QUIZZES:  
Reading assignments will be assigned before each session. Typically, reading assignments 
requi re students to read the relevant chapter(s) in the textbook before watching the class 
videos . Students have to complete the reading materials to succeed in quizzes. As you 
read the chapters, workout the solved example problems in Excel. If you are not doin g 
what is required to be done before attending classes, you are not doing what is essential 
for succeeding in this course.   
 
All Quizzes are individual tasks . A missed quiz will result in a score of zero. No make -up 
quizzes will be given if you missed any of the quizzes.  Quizzes are mean to test your 
knowledge of the materials of the reading assignments. Complete your reading 
assignments before taking the quizzes  is essential. Quizzes are open book and open notes 
type , and will test conceptual understanding for the subject matter and not rote 
memorization nor the student ability to search out for answers because they will be of  
 
8 open book -open note type.  Quizzes will only contain multiple choice questions. 
However, these  multiple choice questions sometime require students to calculate the 
answers.  You will have sufficient time to complete the Quizzes held on Canvas . Each quiz 
will be timed and must be completed before the deadline indicated. All quiz scores shall 
count to wards final grade. A missed quiz will result in a score of zero . NO make -up quiz 
will be provided for quizzes missed due to any reason.  
 
Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, 
tutoring websites such as Chegg .com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. 
Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies.     
 
EXAMS:  
Exams are individual tasks . There will be two exams and all of them are take -home type, 
held on Canvas and must be completed within the time window indicated . Students 
cannot miss an Exam.  No make -up exams will be  given . You must make sure you 
complete the exam and submit your file on time or be prepared to lose points. Exams will 
be open textbook and open notes type . You are allowed to use laptops and perform 
calculations using Excel. Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED and for solving Exam problems. If 
Excel is not used ( along with Excel functions and Excel Data AnalysisToolpak options), zero 
points will be recorded for the Exams.  In the Excel file you submitted to Canvas, please 
show your work process. If you only provide the final answer without any work process 
shown, y ou will receive zero point even if your answer is correct.  
 
Exams will test the student understanding for the application of the methods and 
interpretation of results. Problems on exams will be similar to HW problems. Exams 
should be completed using Excel . All exam scores shall count towards final grade .  
 
Exams may be  administered online in Canvas using Honorlock based on USF system 
policies. Honorlock violations will be reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding with 
classmates and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring 
websites such as  Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. 
Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies.  
 
NO MAKE -UP WORK, NO EXTR A CREDIT POLICY:  
Again, in this course, no make -up or extra credit work will be assigned, except for those 
with medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the students  (not friends or family 
members). Official documents from the doctor and/or the hospital a re required for 
these exceptions to be made.  
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements if they wish to remain in the 
course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any  
 
9 student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the dro p/add 
period.  
 
 
XIII. Grade Dissemination  
All submissions happen on Canvas. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" 
in Canvas. Grades for Homework assignments, Quizzes, and Exams will be posted on 
Canvas typically within 1 -2 weeks past the respecti ve due dates. If any delays happen due 
to unforeseen circumstances, you will be informed of the possible delays through e -mail.           
 
XIV.   Copyright Statement  
My lectures and course materials, including class videos, PPT slides, quizzes, exams, 
homework, and notes, are  protected by copyright. Copyrighted course materials may not 
be further disseminated. I encourage you to take notes and make copies of course 
materials for your own educational use only.  
 
  
 
   
 
10 XIV. Course Schedule  
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
Each week, the course material s will be uploaded to Canvas on Monday.   
 
Week  Date  Topic and Description  
1 08/21 Topic:  
Syllabus, Course Outline, and Introduction   
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read syllabus carefully  
• Read Textbook Chapter 1 “Data and Statistics”  
• Read “Chapter0,WhyStudyStatistics.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 2 ,3, &4 ) 
• Read and Practice in Excel “Chapter01DataAndDescriptiveStatistics.docx” &  
“Chapter02Probability.docx”   
• Quiz 1 due Friday Aug 25th at 5:00 pm (Quiz 1 will serve as the First Day 
Attendance assignment . Students who missed Quiz 1 WILL be dropped 
from the course  automatically ) 
2 08/28 Topic:  
 Descriptive Statistics  & Probability   
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read Textbook Chapter 2 “Descriptive Statistics: Tabular and Graphical 
Displays”, Chapter 3 “Descriptive Statistics: Numerical Measures”, and 
Chapter 4 “Introduction to Probability”  
• Read and Practice in Excel “Chapter01DataAndDescriptiveStatistics.docx” &  
“Chapter02Prob ability.docx”   
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 1, due Monday  09/04/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 2 due Monday  09/04/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 5&6 ) 
• Read  & practice in Excel “Chapter03ProbabilityDistributions.docx”   
3  
09/04 Topic:  
 Probability  Distributions  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 5 “ Discrete Probability Distributions”  and Chapter 6 
“Continuous Probability Distributions”  
• Read  & practice in Excel “Chapter03ProbabilityDistributions.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 2, due Monday  09/11/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 3 due Monday  09/11/202 3 at 11:59 pm  
 
11 • Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 7) 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter04ConfidenceIntervals.docx”   
4 09/11  Topic:  
 Sampling and Sampling Distributions  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 7 “Sampling and Sampling Distributions”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter04ConfidenceIntervals.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 3, due Monday  09/18/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 4 due Monday  09/18/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 8&9 ) 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter05HypothesisTesting.docx”  
5 09/18 Topic:  
 Interval Estimation  & Hypothesis Test  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 8 “Interval Estimation”  and Chapter 9 “Hypothesis 
Tests”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter05HypothesisTesting.docx”  
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 4, due Monday  09/25/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 5 due Monday  09/25/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
6 09/25 Topic:  
 Mid-term Review . No new/additional course content will be covered this week.  
Assignments : 
• Study for Mid-term . Review all previous readings, slides, in -class exercises, 
and HW assignments  
7 10/02 Mid-term Exam : Will open on Friday , Sep 29th at 10:00 am, and close on Monday , 
Oct 2nd, at 11:59 pm .  
Assignments:  
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 12) 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter07CategoricalVariables.docx”  
8 10/09 Topic:  
 Comparing Multiple Proportions, Test of Independence and Goodness of Fit I  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read  textbook  Chapter 12 “Comparing Multiple Proportions, Test of 
Independence and Goodness of Fit”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter07CategoricalVariables.docx”  
  
 
12 Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 5, due Monday  10/23/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 6 due Monday  10/23/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
9 10/16  Topic:  
 Comparing Multiple Proportions, Test of Independence and Goodness of Fit II  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 12 “Comparing Multiple Proportions, Test of 
Independence and Goodness of Fit”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter07CategoricalVariables.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 5, Monday  10/23/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 6 due Monday  10/23/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Readings for the next week  (Textbook Chapter 13)  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter06ANOVA.docx”  
10 03/13  Spring Break, no class  
10 10/23 Topic:  
 Analysis of Variance I  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 13 “Experimental Design and Analysis of Variance”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter06ANOVA.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 6, due Monday  11/06/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 7 due Monday  11/06/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
11 10/30 Topic:  
 Analysis of Variance II  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read  textbook  Chapter 13 “Experimental Design and Analysis of Variance”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter06ANOVA.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 6, due Monday  11/06/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 7 due Monday  11/06/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 14&15)  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter08SimpleRegression.docx”  
12 11/06 Topic:  
Regression I : Simple Linear Regression  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 14 “Simple Linear Regression” and Chapter 15 
“Multiple Regression”   
 
13 • Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter08SimpleRegression.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 7, due Monday  11/20/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 8 due Monday  11/20/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter09MultipleRegression.docx”  
13 11/13 Topic:  
 Regression II : Multiple Regression  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 14 “Simple Linear Regression” and Chapter 15 
“Multiple Regression”  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter09MultipleRegression.docx”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 7, due Monday  11/20/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 9 due Monday  11/20/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Readings for the next week ( Textbook Chapter 17) 
14 11/20 Topic:  
Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
Assignments to be completed before class:  
• Read textbook Chapter 17 “Time Series Analysis and Forecasting”  
 
Assignments:  
• Homework Assignment # 8, due Monday  11/27/202 3 at 11:59 pm 
• Quiz 10 due Monday  11/27/2023  at 11:59 pm 
• Study for the final exam  
15 11/27 Topic:  
Final exam Review. No new/additional course content will be covered this week.  
Assignments : 
Study for the final exam . Review all previous readings, slides, in -class exercises, 
and HW assignments  
 12/02 Final -term Exam : Will open on Friday , Dec 1st at 10:00 am, and close on Monday , 
Dec 4th at 11:59  pm.  
 
 
 
   
 
14 XV. General Education Statement (undergraduate only – Required if a Gen Ed course)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVI. Integration of This Course into Your Academic Experience (Gen Ed only)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVII. Global Citizens Project (only required if a GCP course; must be verbatim)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVIII.  USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to student recording class sessions, academic 
integrity and grievances, stu dent accessibility services, academic disruption, religious 
observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment that apply to all 
courses at USF. Be sure to review these online at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
 
XIX. Standard University Policies  – (section t o be edited ) 
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XX. Covid -19 Procedures  – (section t o be edited ) 
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing  
during in -person classes . Failure to do so may result in dismissal from c lass, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct and Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
 
XXI. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Online Proctoring:  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may  require online proctoring. Quizzes and 
examinations will be administered using online proctoring tool - Honorlock . Keeping the 
audio and video (microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is a mus t. 
Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a 
microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote 
recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from 
any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the  
 
15 residence.  To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for 
the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure 
private settings for recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an 
appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must 
ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and acce pt all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns. Setup 
information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional 
information about online proctoring you can visit the online proctoring student FA Q at:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -
proctoring.aspx  
 
Late Work Policy :  
No late work will be accepted  – any work submitted later than the pre -assigned deadline 
will be marked with ZERO points. Exceptions will be made to those with medical 
emergencies/hospitalizations of the student (not friends or family members). Official 
documents from the doctor and/or the hospital are required for these exceptions to be 
made.  
 
Extra Credit Policy :  
No extra credit opportunity will be  provided in this class.  Students do not need to do 
extra work to succeed in this class.  Just do what you have been assigned on -time without -
missing the deadlines to become eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments, 
Quizzes, and Exams) assigned in  this course shall count towards your grade. If you fail to 
meet the deadline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No exceptions. Any 
exception will be made ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student 
with proper official documen tation from the doctor/hospital.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses: An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise 
earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor 
of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic 
semesters , whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever 
comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic 
semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or 
“IU,” whiche ver is appropriate.  
For graduate courses: An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the 
instructor’s discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements 
due to illness or other circumstances beyond their control. The cour se instructor and 
student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to 
be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero 
for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiate d and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate courses  
 
16 and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that 
course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for u ndergraduate courses and 
one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade 
noted on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy :  
There will be no rewrites in this course. All quizzes and exams can be attempted only 
once. Students ca n submit their HW reports multiple times but all the submissions must 
happen only before the set deadline (and not after).  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
Example  No make -up exam will be allowed in this class.  If a student misses an exam  or a 
quiz, ZERO points will be assigned to the exam /quiz . Exceptions will be made to those with 
medical emergencies/hospitalizations of the student (not friends or family members). 
Official documents from the doctor and/or the hospital are required for these exceptions 
to be made.  
 
Exam Retention Policy :  
All exams are held online. After exams are graded, the instructor will review the 
examination with the class. The electronical exams will be retained for one semester 
following the current one, and then they will be dele ted. 
 
Essay Commentary Policy :  
Not Applicable  
 
Group Work Policy :  
All the tasks in the course – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams are individual tasks. 
There is no group work allowed in this course. If there is any group work in the group 
work, that would be plagiarism. In such instances, action will be taken on students based 
on USF policy on academic integrity violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : 
All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final examination 
policy.  
 
XXII. Course Policies : Technology and Media  (as applicable  – section t o be edited ) 
 
Email :  
Students communicate with the instructor:  
• Please communicate with the instructor through your USF email address;  
• Please email me to set up an appointment for office hours  if you need to;  
• Please do NOT submit deliverables through email. It will be treated as a non -
submission.   
 
17 • Please don’t post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework 
submissions. I  will not read your comments until I sit down to grade your 
assignment.  
• Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your 
end are technology related you must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas 
Helpdesk, and/or Honorlock Helpdesk depending on the issue and the y will help 
you immediately. I won’t be able to resolve your technology issues.  
 
 Instructor communicate with students:  
• I will use Canvas to send out announcements, so students much check your USF 
email account regularly ; 
• I will email students  through Canvas  or my USF email address.  
 
Canvas :  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses 
being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas h elp 
guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu.  
 
All relevant course materials, such as assignments, PPT slides, class recordings  for some 
sessions , quizzes, and additional documents, will be posted on Canvas under “Modules”. It 
is the students’ responsibility to check Canvas frequently for materials and complete class 
requirements/deliverables on time.  
 
Honorlock:  
In this course, we may use Canvas - Honorlock  for all Quizzes and Exams. Students are 
therefore require d to have a webcam with a microphone (either USB or mounted into 
your computer).  
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms 
and video testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enro llment in the course is an agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the drop/add period.  
 
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is 
purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must  be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence.  
 
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private 
settings for recordings and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate 
space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.   
 
18  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and 
accept a ll responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
 
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable 
computer and high -speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to 
taking the proctored exam. To use Honorlock  students are required to download and 
install the Honorlock  Google Chrome extension (Links to an external site.)." For additional 
information please visit the USF online proctoring student FAQ (Links to an external site.) 
and Honorlock  student resources (Links to an external site.).  
 
Stude nts need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download 
the Honorlock  extension. Your system also needs webcam and you need to present your 
ID (any Photo ID would be enough you can simply use your USF ID) for verification to get 
into Honorlock  Quizzes and Exams.  
 
Specific information / instructions will be provided on all Honorlock  Quizzes and 
Honorlock  Exams. For additional information about online proctoring you can visit the 
online proctoring student FAQ.  
 
 
XXIII.  Course Policies: Student  Expectations  – (section t o be edited )  
 
Attendance Policy:   
Students are expected to participate  classes  online . The attendance will be monitored 
by Canvas Course Participation .   
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites 
that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. 
This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of th ese 
website s (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation o f the 
academic integrity policy .  
 
Professionalism Policy:   
Complete your work and submit reports on time every time well before the respective 
deadlines on assignments.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
  
 
19 Food and Drink Policy:   
Not Applicable.  
 
 
XXIV.  Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
 
Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
Tutoring and Writing Support  
Learning Support Services provides free tutoring and writing consultations for a 
variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math 
& Statistics, Physics, and Spanish. Make an appointment online .  
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk 
about incidents o f discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, 
gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 
941-487-4254  
 
Victim Advocate  
A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistanc e leave a 
message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon as possible. 
The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and partner 
violence.   
 
    Disability Accommodation   
 
Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must 
be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be 
arrange d. It is the responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy 
of the official Memo of Accommodation. Contact Information: Disability Coordinator, 
941-359-4714, disabilityservices@sar.u sf.edu , http://usfsm.edu/disability -services// .  
  
Other Student Support  
USFSM has a variety of offices that provide learning support  services. To learn more, 
students  should consult to following web pages: 
http://usfsm.edu/students/index.aspx   and http://usfsm.edu/faculty -and-
staff/index.aspx    (instructor/learning section).  
 
 
Tampa Campus  
Tutoring Hub   
 
20 The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates. 
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email 
asctampa@usf.edu  
 
Writing  Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At 
the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any 
point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are 
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, 
email writingstudio@usf.edu  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of  the campus community by providing 
culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances 
student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by 
promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by 
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
St. Petersburg Campus  
Student Success  Center  
The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and writing consultations. Contact 
information is available online.  
 
Wellness Center  
The Wellness Center provides counseling and medical services, as well as prevention 
programs and victim advocacy.  Contact information is available online.  
 
 