




Semester: Summer 2023
Class Meeting Days:  – 100% online Class Meeting Time: – 100% online Class Meeting Location:  – 100% online Instructor: Mack Cooley 
Office Location:  – 100% online 
Email: cooleym@usf.edu
CGS2100.521U23
Computers in Business
CGS2100.521U23, 3 Credit Hours
Business, School of Information Systems and Management

COURSE SYLLABUS
Last Updated: 04/04/2023


Welcome! 
My ambition is to teach you the basic office automation skills you will need in your career.
Relax and enjoy the learning. Positive thoughts develop into positive outcomes. Tell yourself “You can do this” and you will be able to do this (pass this course)! This Summer C class is a fast-paced class. The 16 -week information and assignments are compressed into 10 weeks. It’s critical you keep up with the assignment due dates.

University Course Description
An introduction to the use and impact of computers in all areas of business organizations, and some of the most widely used office productivity software packages.

Course Prerequisites
No Prerequisite Courses required

How to Succeed in this Course
Read the entire syllabus
If you are new to Canvas make sure to review “Getting Started” module
Do the work and you will pass this course!
MANDATORY ATTENDANCE ‐ You must log into Canvas by Wed. May 17, 2023 and review the syllabus!
NO TEXT IS REQUIRED– All course material will be posted in Canvas
Download and install the MS O365 software as noted in section XIII
Review each modules presentation, if you do not – I will know by the questions you ask me!
Quizzes are based on the presentation content
Monitor Announcements Tab and Canvas messages ‐ that will be a method for me to communicate with all of you!

Course Topics
Information systems and organizations
Word processing software
Spreadsheet software
Presentation software
Database Software
Collaboration software
Visualization software
Student Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course students will be able to:

Discuss how information systems can be used to support business organizations.
Navigate and create content‐rich documents using a word processing application.
Create simple spreadsheets and perform mathematical and financial calculations, build charts and format spreadsheets.
Critically interpret quantitative evidence (such as graphs, tables, charts) in order to identify false claims, incorrect use of evidence, or contradictory statements.
Use a presentation tool to create presentations.
Use a visualization tool to create an information dashboard and interpret visualizations to produce business insights.
Create and edit database objects (Tables, Queries, Forms, Reports).
Collaborate using an online collaboration tool.

Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials There is no set textbook.

Grading Scale

Grade Categories and Weights
Student performance will be evaluated based on assignments, quizzes, exams AND attendance (meaning assignments, quizzes, exams should be submitted on time)

Course Schedule
Please note this is a tentative schedule – some shifting may occur as we progress into the semester.
Module assignments and due dates will be presented in Canvas.
Note: All items submitted are due at 11:59 pm of the Due Date

Standard University Policies

Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core‐syllabus‐policy‐statements.aspx

Covid‐19 Procedures

All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID‐19 mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing during in‐person classes. Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development, and possible removal from campus.

Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core‐syllabus‐policy‐statements.aspx



Course Policies: Grades

Each Assignment and Exam will have a rubric explaining the applicable points awarded
Each Assignment/Homework must be submitting using Canvas
Time management is a must. The modules have set locks, each module opens after the last assignment due date of previous module
You must submit work on time ‐ Points deducted for each missed or late quiz, assignment,

homework or exam. However, please contact me if you have a circumstance that will prevent timely submittals as I do know life happens
Sometimes the quizzes mark an answer wrong ‐ I will review all quizzes after the due dates to make corrections.
Quizzes are not timed and can only be taken once ‐ so review the module presentation and take your time! 
Homework counts as attendance – no homework no attendance point (must be submitted on time)
In most cases: Quizzes, Assignments, Homework, Exams ‐ will be graded over the weekend
Work submitted late will have half of the available points awarded towards correct work submitted– unless the situation is explained to the instructor and if the instructor finds the situation  to be valid – then the full applicable points will be awarded.


Course Policies: Technology and Media

This is a PC Microsoft Office Course (not a MAC course)
Students are expected to have access to a PC throughout the semester. **Note** All local libraries have PCs available for patrons
MACs can be used‐ material will not always match but is doable ‐ it would be best to do work on a PC. The reason for this is most businesses use PCs and 60% of all jobs require basic PC skills ‐ Not MAC skills!
PC webcam would be nice for Teams assignment but not required – a microphone will be as we will need to hear you. Most PC’s have a built‐in Microphone
When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on Wi‐Fi as it is not as reliable or fast
Software: Microsoft Office 2016 (2013 will work but may not always match up with assignment work)
Microsoft Office 365 is available FREE of charge to USF students – access link below for details
https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/faqs-download.aspx
