Giti JavidiProfessorjavidi@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateeRoom: C214APhone: 941-359-4257VitaGiti Javidi is a professor of Cybersecurity at the School of Information Systems and
               Management, Muma College of Business. She also serves as the academic director of
               theInformation Assurance and Cybersecurity Management undergraduate program. She joined USF in 2016, having previously served at Virginia State University as
               a professor of Computer Science at the College of Engineering. Professor Javidi’s
               research interests cut across several areas including design solutions for secure
               smart devices, cybersecurity management and analytics, and data analytics applications
               in business. She directs the Applied Research Collaborative (ARC) lab on the Sarasota-Manatee
               campus where crossdisciplinarity faculty, students and industry partners come together
               to carry out applied research and on-demand training. Her research has been published
               in leading computing journals, and she has been awarded a number of prestigious grants
               from external agencies including NSF, NASA, Google and Microsoft. As a long-time advocate
               for diversity and inclusion in the technology workforce, she has spearheaded a number
               of national and international projects in this domain throughout her academic career.
               Prof. Javidi has received several prestigious awards in recognition of her influential
               role in leading national efforts for inclusive STEM education and workforce. These
               awards include the 2015 Virginia Fearless Leaders, 2017 and 2020 Sarasota Women of
               Influence and 2018 USF Women in Leadership and Philanthropy. She earned a PhD and
               master’s degree from the University of South Florida and a bachelor’s degree in computer
               science from the University of Central Oklahoma.