Greg SmershProfessor of InstructionExide Professor of Finance and Real Estategsmersh@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3528Phone: 813-974-6239VitaGreg Smersh is director of the advisory board for the Real Estate Society at USF and
               teaches finance and real estate in the Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance.
               His academic research has investigated the variation in house price appreciation due
               to risk factors such as hurricanes and sinkholes. His seminal paper on pricing residential
               amenities in theJournal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, 1998 has been cited more than 700 times.Prior to joining USF in 2009, Smersh was in the construction industry and worked as
               a consultant for the CCIM Institute. He has done consulting work for real-estate developers
               throughout the state of Florida and held visiting positions at other Florida universities.
               He currently teaches the 100 percent online section of Principles of Finance along
               with several sections of the Real Estate Decision Making elective course.Smersh earned a PhD from the University of Florida, an MBA from Western Washington
               University and a bachelor's degree from the University of Washington.TeachingFIN 3403 - Principles of FinanceREE 3043 - Real Estate Decision MakingREE 6045 - Real Estate DecisionsRecent ResearchDumm, R., C. Nyce and S. Sirmans and G. Smersh (2022) "Pricing Moral Hazard in Residential
                  Properties: The Impact of Sinkhole Claims on House Prices,"Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Vol. 64, Number 1.Smersh, G., R. Dumm and S. Sirmans (2018) "Sinkholes and Residential Property Prices:
                  Presence, Proximity, and Density,"Journal of Real Estate Research, Vol. 40, Issue 1.Dumm, R., S. Sirmans, G. Smersh and T. Greg (2016) "Price Variation in Waterfront
                  Properties Over the Economic Cycle,"Journal of Real Estate Research, Vol. 38, Issue 1.Nyce, C., R. Dumm, S. Sirmans and G. Smersh (2015) "The Capitalization of Homeowners
                  Insurance Premiums in House Prices,"Journal of Risk and Insurance, Vol. 82, Issue 4.Dumm, R., S. Sirmans and G. Smersh (2012) "Building Codes, Wind Contours, and House
                  Prices,"Journal of Real Estate Research, Vol. 34, Number 1Nyce, C., R. Dumm, S. Sirmans and G. Smersh (2011) "The Capitalization of Building
                  Codes in House Prices,"Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Vol. 42, Number 1.ServiceFaculty advisor, Real Estate Society at USFAd hoc reviewer, various academic journals and publishersCertified instructor, ARGUS Valuation - DCF™Member, USF Sustainable Cities Working Group