Yusuf HassanAssistant Professor of Instructionyusufhassan@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateePhone: 941-359-4508Room: C214AVitaYusuf Hassan is an assistant professor of instruction for business management in the
               School of Information Systems and Management on USF’s Sarasota-Manatee campus. He
               started teaching at USF in August 2023. He was previously a full-time faculty member
               at the Birmingham Business School at the University of Birmingham where he taught
               Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management. Prior to that, he served as
               a full-time faculty member at the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) Dubai. In
               addition, he is a Fellow at the Centre for Sports and Business in the Stockholm School
               of Economics in Sweden.Hassan conducts research in the fields of human-technology interactions, talent management,
               sports organizations, and knowledge management. His scholarly contributions have been
               published in internationally refereed journals, including theInternational Journal of Human Resource Management,Journal of Business Research,International Journal of Manpower,Journal of Global Information Management,IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, and theAustralasian Journal of Information Systems, among others. Additionally, Hassan serves as an editorial board member and reviewer
               for peer-reviewed journals, includingManagement Decision,International Journal of Manpower,Journal of Global Information Management, andAnnals of Operations Research, among others.Hassan holds a PhD in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management from the
               Indian Institute of Management Indore, India. He also earned a master's degree in
               social work from the University of Delhi and a bachelor's degree in philosophy from
               Hindu College, University of Delhi, India.His received the 2016 NIPM-DU gold medal during post-graduation at the University
               of Delhi. Additionally, Hassan has an advanced diploma in Alternative Dispute Resolution
               from the NALSAR University of Law, India. He received the "Emerging Scholar" award
               from the Sport & Society Research Network in 2023. He also achieved the top rank in
               the 2016 All India UGC-JRF examination.