Greg GreenhalghVisiting Assistant Professor of Instructiongreenhalgh@usf.eduCampus: TampaRoom: BSN 3433VitaGreg Greenhalgh is a visiting assistant professor of instruction with the USF Vinik
               Sport & Entertainment Management Program in the Muma College of Business. Prior to
               joining the program, Greenhalgh spent nine years at the Center for Sport Leadership
               at Virginia Commonwealth University. And prior to that, he taught in the Sport Administration
               Department at the University of Louisville.Greenhalgh’s primary research interest focuses on the marketing of sport organizations,
               specifically investigating what attracts fans and sponsors to niche, or non-mainstream,
               sports and how these sports can position themselves to be more sustainable in the
               future. His other research interests include consumer behavior, sport and the natural
               environment. Currently, he has articles published in theJournal of Sport Management,Sport Management Review,Sport Marketing Quarterly, theInternational Journal of Sport Communication, theInternational Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship, theInternational Journal of Sport Management & Marketingand theMarketing Management Journal. Greenhalgh has presented at several national and international conferences including
               the North American Society for Sport Management, the Sport Marketing Association,
               the European Association of Sport Management and the American Marketing Association.In the classroom, Greenhalgh focuses on sport marketing, sales and fundraising and serves
               as a faculty internship coordinator, working with Tampa Bay Lightning, USF Athletics,
               Minor League Baseball, United Soccer League, Tampa Bay Rowdies, the Tampa Bay Inferno
               and Disney’s Wide World of Sports.He has spent several years in the sport industry. He was the FieldTurf representative,
               attending and representing the company at Super Bowl XL and the NCAA Convention. He
               also was the assistant manager of a small hockey- and lacrosse-focused pro shop for
               nearly 10 years and also interned with the Professional Hockey Player’s Association.He earned a PhD at the University of Louisville, a master's degree in sport administration
               from Central Michigan University and a bachelor’s degree in sport management from
               Brock University.TeachingSPB 6715 – Sale & Fundraising in SportSPB 6946 – Internship in Sport & EntertainmentSPB 4712 – Sport MarketingResearchGoebert, C. & Greenhalgh, G. (forthcoming) "A New Reality: Fan Perceptions of Augmented
                        Reality Readiness in Sport Marketing,"Computers in Human BehaviorLeCrom, C. W., Dwyer, B., & Greenhalgh, G. P. (forthcoming) "Theory Creation in Sport
                        for Development: Reflections on Barriers and Challenges,"Journal of Sport Management.Greenhalgh, G. P. & Drayer, J. (forthcoming) "An Assessment of Fans’ Willingness to
                        Pay for Teams" Environmental Sustainability Initiatives,"Sport Marketing Quarterly.Gellock, J. L., Eckholm, E., Greenhalgh, G. P., LeCrom, C. W., Reina, C., & Kudesia,
                        R. S. (2019) "Women’s Lacrosse Players’ Perceptions of Teammate Leadership: Examining
                        Athlete Leadership Behaviors, Attributes, and Interactions,"Journal of Athlete Development and Experience, 1(2), 66-76.LeCrom, C.W., Martin, T., Dwyer, B., Greenhalgh, G. (2019)  "The Role of Management
                        in Achieving Health Outcomes in SFD Programmes: A Stakeholder Perspective,"Sport Management Review, 22, 53-67.