Steven C. CurrallProfessorscc@usf.eduCampus: TampaVitaSteven C. Currall is a professor in the Muma College of Business’ School of Information
               Systems and Management and served as the seventh president of the University of South
               Florida (USF). Currently, he is a Visiting Scholar at Harvard University’s Paulson
               School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (on sabbatical from USF).During his presidency, USF successfully consolidated all three campuses into a single-accredited
               university, broke into the top 50 among public universities onU.S. News and World Report’s rankings for the first time, raised approximately $230 million, and completed (or
               began) construction of new facilities totaling $346 million and 767,000 square feet.Currall led development of USF’s 10-year strategic plan that provides the vision for
               the university to advance toward its goals of becoming a top 25 public university
               and reaching eligibility for membership in the Association of American Universities
               (AAU). Currall’s leadership also helped guide the university community through the
               COVID-19 crisis, including allocating over $1 million to create USF’s Pandemic Response
               Research Network to foster new research on COVID-19 treatments and solutions. He initiated
               new USF programs in support of diversity and inclusion, spearheaded the creation of
               USF’s Principles of Community, and took steps to enhance compliance, sound budgeting
               practices, and operational excellence.He co-led the formation of a strategic alliance between USF and Tampa General Hospital
               (TGH) to integrate the clinical operations of USF Health and TGH (1,400 health care
               providers across 46 locations).Currall approved USF’s Institute of Applied Engineering, which secured a $85 million,
               five-year contract with U.S. Special Operations Command. The Institute assists the
               federal government in defense-related fields such as autonomous systems and sensor
               technologies. In 2020, Currall hired Mike McConnell, former U.S. Director of National
               Intelligence, to lead Cyber Florida, which is a research and education center administered
               by USF. Previously, while living in California, Currall served as an Honorary Commander,
               60th Air Mobility Wing, Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, California.Prior to his role at USF, Currall was provost and vice president for academic affairs
               at Southern Methodist University where he oversaw all academic colleges/schools and
               led strategic planning efforts to enhance SMU’s academic quality and stature. Together
               with the leadership of the George W. Bush Presidential Center, Currall co-designed
               the Bush Institute-SMU Economic Growth Initiative.At the University of California, Davis, Currall served as senior adviser to the chancellor
               for strategic projects and initiatives, which included co-chairing a campus-wide strategic
               visioning exercise to position UC Davis for the 21st century. Currall co-chaired a
               committee charged with growing research expenditures to $1 billion. He served as the
               principal investigator for the $1 million U.S. Department of Commerce i6 Challenge
               grant to create the Sustainable Agricultural Technology Innovation Center at UC Davis.At UC Davis, he also served as dean of the Graduate School of Management. During his
               tenure as dean, the school was the fastest rising business school in the country in
               the 2013 Forbes magazine biennial ranking of top-100 full-time MBA programs and the
               fastest rising top-50 business school in the country in the 2011U.S. News & World Reportfull-time MBA ranking.At University College London, Currall was the founding chair of the Department of
               Management Science and Innovation in the Faculty (School) of Engineering Sciences,
               where he was also a vice dean. While in London, he was a visiting professor of organizational
               behavior and entrepreneurship at the London Business School.From 1993 to 2005, Currall served in several roles at Rice University, including the
               William and Stephanie Sick Professorship of Entrepreneurship, an endowed professorship
               in the George R. Brown School of Engineering. He was also a tenured associate professor
               in the Jones Graduate School of Management. At Rice, he founded the Rice Alliance
               for Technology and Entrepreneurship, which assisted in the launch of more than 160
               new technology start-up companies that raised in excess of $300 million in equity
               capital. Currall received Stanford University’s Price Foundation Innovative Entrepreneurship
               Educator Award, Grand Velocity Award for Academic Entrepreneurship (Kelley School
               of Business, Indiana University), and Ernst & Young’s Entrepreneur of the Year Award
               (southeast Texas region).Currall is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and
               a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts (United Kingdom). His scholarly research
               and teaching focuses on organizational psychology topics such as innovation, trust,
               emerging technologies, negotiation and corporate governance. He has been a personal
               grantee on $23.5 million in research funding, over 80 percent of which came from refereed
               grants from the National Science Foundation or National Institutes of Health.Currall was lead author of a book on university-business-government collaboration
               titled, Organized Innovation: A Blueprint for Renewing America's Prosperity (Oxford
               University Press), the culmination of a National Science Foundation-funded 10-year
               research project on interdisciplinary research involving science, engineering and
               medicine.He has served as a member of several editorial review boards, including Academy of
               Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, and Organization Science. He has
               been quoted in publications, including theNew York Times,Wall Street Journal,Washington Post,Financial Times, British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) television, and the Nightly Business Report
               on public television.Additional service on advisory groups include membership of the Nanotechnology Technical
               Advisory Group, which provided input to the U.S. President’s Council of Advisors on
               Science and Technology. He is a member of the U.S. Council on Competitiveness, a group
               of business leaders and university presidents that bolsters America’s investments
               in talent, technology, innovation and infrastructure.Currall’s board service has included: The 10-campus University of California system’s
               Global Health Institute; University of South Florida – Tampa General Physicians (strategic
               alliance for clinical integration between USF and Tampa General Hospital); H. Lee
               Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute; Tampa Bay Partnership; Cancer Prevention
               and Research Institute of Texas (University Advisory Committee); California Life Sciences
               Association; San Francisco Bay Area Council; Sacramento Area Regional Technology Alliance;
               BioHouston; and Houston Technology Center.A native of Kansas City, Missouri, Currall earned a PhD in organizational behavior
               from Cornell University, a master’s degree in social psychology from the London School
               of Economics and Political Science and a bachelor’s degree in psychology (cum laude)
               from Baylor University. Currall was a visiting scholar in the University of Chicago’s
               Booth School of Business.ResearchCurrall, S C., and Narayanamurti, V. (2022).The CHIPS and Science Act: An Inflection Point for Technological Leadership?Issues in Science and Technology 39, no. 1 (Fall 2022): 39–42.Currall, Steven C., and Venkatesh Narayanamurti. “Fostering Innovation to Strengthen US Competitiveness Through the National Science
                     Foundation.” Issues in Science and Technology (2022).S. C. Currall, E. Frauenheim, S. J. Perry, and E. M. Hunter,Organized Innovation: A Blueprint for Renewing America’s Prosperity(New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2014).E. M. Hunter, S. J. Perry, and S. C. Currall, “Inside multi-disciplinary science and
                  engineering research centers: The impact of organizational climate on invention disclosures
                  and patents,”Research Policy40, no. 9 (2011): 1226–1239.S. J. Perry, E. M. Hunter, and S. C. Currall, “Managing the innovators: Organizational
                  and professional commitment among scientists and engineers,”Research Policy45, no. 6 (2016): 1247–1262.Perry, S.J., Currall, S.C., & Stuart, T.E. (2007).The Pipeline from University Laboratory to New Commercial Product:  An Organizational
                     Framework for Technology Commercialization in Multidisciplinary Research Centers.  In M. Epstein, T. Davila, & R. Shelton (eds.) The Creative Enterprise.  Westport,
                  CT: Praeger Publishers/Greenwood Publishing Group, pp. 85-105.