Michael D. WiemerDirector, Fintech Center, Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Financemdwiemer@usf.eduCampus: St. PetersburgMichael D. Wiemer is the director of the Fintech Center in the Kate Tiedemann School
               of Business and Finance on the USF St. Petersburg campus. He is an experienced C-level
               executive with more than two decades of progressive leadership in business education
               and global 501(c)(3) associations, fostering an inclusive culture of innovation and
               growth mindset. Wiemer has a strong record of leading high-performing, cross-functional
               matrix teams to drive business development, market expansion and revenue growth.Prior to his appointment at the Muma College of Business, Wiemer was senior vice president
               and chief officer of the Americas for AACSB International (AACSB), the world’s foremost
               accreditor and largest business education alliance. He is credited with achieving
               record regional membership and a 54% increase in revenues, globalizing AACSB’s education
               and professional development portfolio, and launching a strategic B2B partnership
               unit engaging hundreds of organizations from the higher education, corporate, nonprofit,
               and public sectors worldwide.Before AACSB, Wiemer was director of international programs at the University of Chicago
               Booth School of Business where he led the international MBA degree and international
               business exchange program. He also previously held several leadership positions at
               Dominican University of California resulting in the launch of an international executive
               education program and formation of a new university center for international programs.Wiemer earned an MBA in international business from Dominican University of California
               and a bachelor’s degree in international relations from the University of Minnesota.
               He also studied executive leadership at Babson College and advanced Mandarin Chinese
               at the National Taiwan University while living and working in Asia.