Andrew ArtisAssociate Professoraartis@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3521Phone: (813) 974-3290VitaAndrew Artis is an associate professor teaching sales and strategy courses in the
               School of Marketing and Innovation and serves as a senior researcher for the newly
               created Marketing and Sales Innovation Center.His research focuses on how business professionals can manage their own learning to
               achieve personal and organizational objectives. His research has appeared in theJournal of Personal Selling and Sales Management, theJournal of Business Research,and theJournal of Business and Industrial Marketing. He also received an "outstanding paper award" for the Education Track from the Marketing
               Management Association Conference in 2011. He has taught at USF Polytechnic University,
               the University of Tennessee and Boise State University. Prior to his teaching career,
               Artis spent 15 years in public and private sector management, marketing and sales.
               He has received numerous teaching awards, notably the Marketing Management Association's
               Master Teacher Award in 2009 and the USF Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award
               in 2008.Artis earned a PhD in business administration from the University of Tennessee, an
               MBA from Boise State University and a bachelor's degree in marketing and management
               from the University of Idaho.TeachingMAR 3400 Professional Selling - UndergraduateGEB 6895 Integrated Business Applications MBAResearchNguyen, Carlin, Andrew B. Artis, Paul Solomon & Richard Plank, “Dimensions of an Effective
                  Sales Coach: Scale Development and Validation,” forthcoming,Journal of Personal Selling &Sales Management.Fleming, David E., Andrew B. Artis, Eric G. Harris & Alex Milovic, "Integrating Organizational
                  and Positive Psychology in Salesperson Turnover: The Role of Market Orientation and
                  Grit," forthcoming,Psychology and Marketing.Nguyen, Carlin, Andrew B. Artis, Paul Solomon & Richard Plank, "Dimensions of an Effective
                  Sales Coach: Scale Development and Validation," forthcoming,Journal ofPersonal Selling & Sales Management.Fleming, David E., Andrew B. Artis, Eric G. Harris & Paul Solomon, (2018), "The Impact
                  of Perceived Corporate Affinity for Technology on Key Service Outcomes: A Signaling
                  Theory Perspective,"Journal of Marketing of Theory Practice, Vol. 26, Iss. 3, p. 230-245.Boyer, Stefanie L., Michael Rodriguez, Andrew B. Artis & Mariah E. Garcia, (2017),
                  "Assessing Sales Training Effectiveness: Why Goal-setting Strategy Matters,"International Journal of Managementand Human Resources, Vol. 4, No 1, p. 94-102.SERVICEMember, USF Professional Development in Higher Education Leadership Advisory Board,
                  2018-presentMember, Muma College of Business Faculty Advisory Graduate Business Students Association,
                  2016-2019Chair, Muma College of Business Search Committee for MBA Communications instructor,
                  2018Member, USF Faculty Advisory Council of the USF Institute for Research in Art, 2015-present