Madeline DominoAssociate Professormdomino@usf.eduCampus: Sarasota-ManateePhone: 941-359-4598VitaMadeline A. Domino is an associate professor of accounting in the Lynn Pippenger School
               of Accountancy in Sarasota-Manatee. She is a Certified Public Accountant and holds
               a designation as a Master Analyst in Financial Forensics. Prior to joining USF, she
               worked as an audit manager for PricewaterhouseCoopers, an international controller
               for Gould International’s European Division and as CFO and audit committee member
               for a major affiliate of Bank of America.Her teaching and research interests include accounting ethics, accounting information
               systems, auditing and forensic accounting and she has taught at University of Central
               Florida, Georgia State University, Mercer University and Saint Leo Center for Online
               Learning. She has received a number of teaching and research awards and developed
               a course in forensic accounting for the Masters in Professional Accountancy program
               for Georgia State University. Her work has been published in theJournal of Business Ethics, Strategic Organization, theAccounting Research Journal, Information Technology & Managementand theJournal of Investigative and Forensic Accounting.  She is active in the American Accounting Association, serves as a member of the
               Florida Continuing Education Ethics Subcommittee, AIS Educators and is a reviewer
               for a number of academic publications.Domino earned a PhD with a concentration in management Information systems from USF
               and a bachelor’s degree in accounting from Florida State University.ResearchDomino, M., S. Schrag, M. Webinger, and C. Troy. (2021). Linking data analytics to
                  real-world business issues: The power of the pivot table.Journal of Accounting Education, Vol. 57.Domino, M.A., G. Giordano and M. Webinger. (2017). An Investigation of the Factors
                  that impact the Perceived Value of Forensic Accounting Certifications.The Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, 9(1): 637-653.Thornhill, R., C. Troy and M.A. Domino. (2016). Passing the plate: A study of internal
                  Controls in local churches.The Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 12(1): 25-54.Domino, M.A., M. Stradiot and M. Webinger. (2015). Factors which may bias judges'
                  decisions to exclude accounting expert witnesses testimony.Accounting Research Journal, 28(1): 9-77Domino, M.A., S.E. Wingreen, J.E. Blanton. (2015). Social Cognitive Theory: The Antecedents
                  and Effects of Ethical Climate Fit on Organizational Attitudes of Corporate Accounting
                  Professionals - A reflection of client narcissism and fraud attitude risk.Journal of Business Ethics,131(2): 453-467