Jeff MorrisAssistant Director of Undergraduate Programs, Kate Tiedemann School of Business and
                  Financejam39@usf.eduCampus: St. PetersburgRoom: LPH 117KPhone: 727-873-4748Jeffrey Morris is the assistant director of undergraduate programs for the Kate Tiedemann
               School of Business and Finance.An Ohio native, Morris attended Jacksonville University, where he majored in accounting.
                Upon graduation from JU in 1983 He was commissioned as a U.S. Navy officer. He became
               a pilot and flew a variety of helicopters during a 23-year Navy career. His military
               service included duty stations in Florida, Texas, California, Virginia, Rhode Island,
               The Netherlands and Indiana. He also deployed aboard various Navy ships (mostly aircraft
               carriers) to locations around the world.After his last Navy assignment, Morris transitioned to a new career in higher education.
                He served for nine years in the University of Notre Dame’s Mendoza College of Business
               as the assistant director, Corporate Recruiting Services, for the MBA Career Development
               office. He was primarily responsible for directing corporate recruiting services for
               employers and recruiters. This included managing job posting and on-campus interviewing
               for both internship and full-time opportunities, as well as the MBA employer advisory
               board and employment statistics/reports.  In addition, he advised and instructed dozens
               of students on career development topics and issues. After Notre Dame, he returned
               to Jacksonville University as the associate director in the Career Resource Center,
               where he expanded his career skills and knowledge for four colleges (business, health
               care, arts & sciences and fine arts). During nearly five years at JU, he advised hundreds
               of students, managed all aspects of employer relations, and taught career and professional
               development courses.In addition to his bachelor's degree in accounting from Jacksonville University, Morris
               earned an MBA from the University of West Florida and a master's degree in national
               security and strategic studies from the United States Naval War College.