Dezhi (Denny) YinAssociate Professordezhiyin@usf.eduRoom: CIS 2078Phone: (813) 974-4291Personal WebsiteVitaDezhi (Denny) Yin is an associate professor in the Muma College of Business' School
               of Information Systems and Management.His research interests include user-generated content (e.g., online word-of-mouth,
               social media, Q&A sites, crowdfunding), emotional expression in online environments,
               and cognitive biases/heuristics in computer/algorithm-mediated communication. As an
               interdisciplinary researcher, he has collaborated with scholars from marketing, strategy/entrepreneurship
               and organizational behavior beyond information systems. His primary expertise in methodology
               is laboratory experiments, but as a strong proponent of triangulation, he strives
               to use multiple studies and multiple methods (such as econometric analyses and surveys)
               to produce more valid and reliable findings.His research has appeared in premier academic journals such asMIS Quarterly,Information Systems Research, theJournal of Marketing Research, theAcademy of Management Journal, andEntrepreneurship Theory and Practice. His research has won several awards, including the Emerald Citations of Excellence
               Award (for his 2014 MISQ paper), the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology
               (SIOP)'s William A. Owens Scholarly Achievement Award (for his 2019 AMJ paper), the
               Conference on Information Systems and Technology (CIST)'s Best Paper Runner-up Award
               in 2017, and the Workshop on E-Business (WeB)'s Best Paper Award in 2020.He won the INFORMS Information Systems Society (ISS) Sandra A. Slaughter Early Career
               Award in 2021 and the MIS Quarterly Outstanding Reviewer of the Year Award in 2017.
               He also served as guest Associate Editor for a special issue atMIS Quarterly.Yin earned a PhD in IT management from the Georgia Institute of Technology, a master's
               degree from Peking University and a bachelor's degree from Shandong University in
               China.TeachingISM 4041 - Global Cyber EthicsISM 7912 - PhD Seminar on Behavioral IS ResearchResearchJiang, L., Yin, D., Liu, D., & Johnson, R. (forthcoming). The More Enthusiastic, The
                  Better? Unveiling a Negative Pathway from Entrepreneurs’ Displayed Enthusiasm to Funders’
                  Funding Intentions.Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice.Yin, D., Bond, S. D., & Zhang, H. (2021). Anger in Consumer Reviews: Unhelpful but
                  Persuasive?MIS Quarterly, 45(3), 1059-1086.Lei, Z., Yin, D., & Zhang, H. (2021). Focus Within or On Others: The Impact of Reviewers’
                  Attentional Focus on Review Helpfulness.Information Systems Research, 32(3), 801-819.Peng, C. H., Yin, D., & Zhang, H. (2020). More than Words in Medical Question-and-Answer
                  Sites: A Content-Context Congruence Perspective.Information Systems Research, 31(3), 913-928.Jiang, L., Yin, D., & Liu, D. (2019). Can Joy Buy You Money? The Impact of the Strength,
                  Duration, and Phases of an Entrepreneur’s Peak Displayed Joy on Funding Performance.Academy of Management Journal, 62(6), 1848-1871.view more at https://dennyyin.com/ServiceMember, Association for Information Systems and INFORMS.Referee,MIS Quarterly,Information Systems Research,Management Scienceand many others.