Lisa GaynorProfessorlgaynor@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3322Phone: (813) 974-6566Fax: (813) 974-6528VitaLisa Gaynor is an professor in the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy, whose primary
               teaching responsibilities are in the areas of auditing and financial accounting. She
               currently teaches intermediate financial accounting at the undergraduate level and
               the integrative (capstone) seminar in the master's program.Her general research interests lie in auditing and financial reporting topics with
               a behavioral and decision making focus. More specifically, her research examines how
               individuals' (e.g., investors, auditors or audit committee members) judgments and
               behavior may be affected by rules and regulations related to independence, fraud,
               fair values and disclosures. She has been published in academic journals such asThe Accounting Review,Accounting Organizations & Society,Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory,Accounting HorizonsandIssues in Accounting Education.In addition, she was chosen as one of the editors inAuditing: A Journal of Practice & Theoryas well as the academic co-editor ofCurrent Issues in Auditing. In 2017, Gaynor was selected to serve on the editorial board ofContemporary Accounting Research, a premier accounting journal.Gaynor earned a PhD from the University of Texas, Austin; an MBA from the University
               of Miami and a bachelor's degree from the University of Florida. A licensed CPA, Gaynor
               taught at Georgetown University and Florida State University prior to joining USF
               in 2006. Before entering academia, she served in roles such as controller, director
               of finance, auditor and tax accountant for both public and private industries.TeachingACG 6636 - Contemporary Issues in AuditingACG 7646 - Doctoral SeminarResearchCohen, J., L.M. Gaynor, G. Krishnamoorthy and A. M. Wright. (2022), The Effects of
                  Audit Committee Ties and Industry Expertise on Investor Judgments—Extending Source
                  Credibility Theory.Accounting, Organizations and Society, online: 101352.Cohen, J., L.M. Gaynor, N.R. Montague, and J. Wayne. (2022). The Effect of Audit Guidance
                  on Auditors’ Evaluations of Fair Value Estimates.Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, forthcoming.Vera-Munoz, S., Gaynor, L.M., and Kinney, W.R. Jr. (2020). Can Customized Procedure
                  Descriptions Communicate Information Credibility? Conflicting Nonfinancial Assurance
                  Standards.”Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory,39(4): 201-222.Gaynor, L., A. Kelton, M. Mercer and T. Yohn. (2016). Understanding the Relation Between
                  Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality.Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory,35(4): 1-22.Gaynor, Lisa., "Audit Committee Effectiveness – A Focus on Their Role and that of
                  the External Auditor," presented at the AAA Auditing Section Midyear Conference, New
                  Orleans, Louisiana, 2013.SERVICEMember, Doctoral Dissertation Committees, 2015-presentMember, DBA Search Committee, 2016Member, University Publications Council, 2014-2016Member, Muma College of Business MBA Strategic Planning Committee, 2014