  
 
 
 
MAN 4441  
Negotiation/Conflict Resolution  
CRN  23921 , Section 521, 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester:  Spring 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  Tuesdays  
Class Meeting Time : 5:00pm -7:45pm  
Class Meeting Location:  Sarasota -Manatee Campus B2 06 
Instructor:  Bruce Gallagher  
Office Location:  Sarasota -Manatee  
Office Hours:  Upon Request  
Email:  bgallagher12@usf.edu  
Phone:  814-598-5532  
 
 
I. University Course Description  
This course examines what conflict is, how it occurs, and how it can be managed through 
negotiation, particularly in the workplace.  
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
MAN 3025 with a minimum grade of C and MAN 3240 with a minimum grade of C  
 
III. Course Purpose   
This course provides a basis for developing the skills necessary to effectively negotiate in both 
business and personal dealings. The course also provides the framework to ef fectively manage 
conflict through the means of communication, building trust, negotiation, mediation, arbitration, 
alternative dispute resolution techniques and similar practices.  
 
IV. Course Format  
Hybrid: Hybrid is 50-79% of the direct instruction of the course is delivered using some form of 
technology when the student and instructor are separated by time, space, or both . Faculty may 
require all students to attend certain classes in person . 
 
V. Student Learning Outcom es 
By the end of this semester, students will be able to:  
• Recommend managerial actions based on knowledge covered in required courses in the 
Management minor and major.  
• Demonstrate critical thinking and decision -making skills by applying general knowledge to 
specific instances.  
• Successfully utilize presentation and report writing skills.  
 
 
 
2 VI. Course Objectives  
The student should be able to:  
• Differentiate between distributed and integrative bargaining and discuss the tactics you 
would use with each.  
• Describe the basic bargaining process including terms such as BATNA and bargaining 
range.  
• Discuss the differences between cooperative and competitive bargaining strategies.  
• Discuss principled negotiations as proposed in “Getting to Yes” and determine when it 
should be used and how to overcome obstacles.  
• Describe when third party interventions are needed.  
• Discuss the process of mediation and when it is appropriate.  
• Discuss the advantages and disadvantages if arbitration.  
• Discuss their advantages and disadva ntages between  arbitration and using the courts.  
• Discuss the different types of individual conflict resolution styles and in what 
circumstances they are appropriate to use. In addition, students will get practice in 
carrying out negotiations as part of in -class exercises. The goal is to develop real -life 
negotiating skills in each student.  
 
VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Negotiation, Roy Lewicki. 7th edition : McGraw -Hill. 
ISBN: 9780078029448  
 
VIII. Grading Scale  
We have 2 quizzes that are 30% of your grade (15% each). Discussion, roleplay, and class 
participation accounts for 30%. A major part of your grade (40%) will be an actual negotiation 
between a management and union contract. More information to be discusse d in class.  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
90-100 A 
80 - 89 B 
70 - 79 C 
60 - 69 D 
0 - 59 F 
 
IX. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade  
Quizzes   30% 
Discussion/Participation /Roleplay  30% 
Final Negotiation   40% 
 
Quizzes (30%)  
Two quizzes, worth 15% each.  
 
 
 
  
 
3 Discussion/Roleplay/Participation (30%)  
You are to role play the following negotiations, worth 30% of your grade. You will be teamed up in 
teams of three  where two will negotiate and one will be the observer and paper writer. The writer 
is to also interview the negotiators on their perception of their negotiations experience. The 
writer will write a 3 -page paper plus cover page on their observations and th ose of the negotiators 
and what went well and what could have been done better. The writer is to also capture what 
concepts they observed in the negotiations from the book. Last, the writer should summarize 
what recommendations they would make so the negot iations can be improved. Each team 
member will play the role of observer and paper writer. The following are the topics to select 
from:  
 
Negotiations Roleplay Set Up:  
The following negotiations will take place for 30 minutes. The observer will keep track o f the 
time and let the negotiators know when they are down to 5 minutes.  
1. Salary negotiations:  one will play the role of the future employee and try to negotiate 
upward. The salary range is from $50k -120k. The hiring employer will negotiate downward. 
The fu ture employee will secretly share with the observer what amount they minimally are 
looking for and the hiring employer will secretly share with the observer the maximum they 
are willing to pay.  
2. Home purchase/sale:  One will be selling their 3 bedroom, 2 ba throom, 2800 square foot 
home in a gated community built in 2015. The seller has posted the house for $475 and they 
will secretly share with the observer the lowest they would consider selling it for. The buyer 
will share secretly with the observer what is  the maximum amount they are willing to pay 
with the observer.  
3. Car sale/purchase:   The seller is looking to sell their 2018 vehicle with 15k miles in excellent 
condition, asking $29k. The seller will secretly share with the observer what is the lowest (if  
any) they are willing to accept. The buyer will secretly share with the observer what they are 
willing to purchase now that they have done their research.  
 
Final Negotiation  (40%)  
To be discussed in class; 40% of grade.  
 
X. Course Schedule . 
 
Date  Topics to be Discussed in Class  
and other Important Information  
Jan 10 
Week 1   
Class Orientation and Expectations  
 
Jan 1 3: Spring add/drop ends; fee liability/tuition payment deadline.  
Last day to submit Spring residency reclassification applications.   
Jan 1 7 
Week 2    
Chapters 1, 2, 3  
Jan 2 4 
Week 3   
     Chapters 3,4,5   
 
4 Jan 3 1 
Week 4   
     Chapters 6, 7 
 
     Feb 6: Spring graduation application deadline   
 
Feb 7 
Week 5   
     Chapters 8, 9, 10 - Role Play Preview  
     Review for Quiz  
 
Feb 1 4 
Week 6   
     Quiz 1  
Feb 2 1 
week 7   
     Chapters 11, 12, 13 —Role Play  
Feb 2 8 
Week 8   
    Chapters 14, 15 —Role Play  
 
     Mar 7: Midterm grading closes  
Mar 7 
Week 9   
    Chapters 16, 17  
    Roleplay  
 
Mar 1 4 
Week 10   
     Spring Break  
Mar 2 1 
Week 11   
     Mock Negotiation Prep  
     Mar 2 5: Last day to withdraw with no refund and no academic penalty.  
 
Mar 2 8 
Week 12   
     Chapters 18, 19—Role Play Due  
April 4 
Week 13   
     Chap. 20 —Review for Quiz  
April 1 1 
Week 14   
      Quiz  
April 1 8 
Week 15   
    Class Negotiations  
April 2 5 
Week 16   
    Class Negotiations   
 
5 May 2  
     Final Negotiations  
     May 4: End of Spring term  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision .  
 
 
 
XI. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all cours es at USF . Be sure to 
review these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
 
XII. Course Policies:  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of 
the student’s work is incomplet e and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. 
The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate 
students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the studen t is in 
residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may 
not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be 
changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s 
final examination policy.  
 
XIII. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may 
also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Recordings : In this class, software may be used to record live class lectures and discussions. As a 
student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings 
will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the 
live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was 
presented. Students who prefer to participate v ia audio only will be allowed to disable their video 
camera so only audio will be captured. Please discuss this option with your instructor.  
 
XIV. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.)  
 
6 as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of  resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Professionalism Policy:   
Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the 
classroo m/lab immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on 
time for all class meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, 
etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will noti fy you by email when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class w ith different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping th e message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XV. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
  
 
7 Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and 
video resour ces in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhance s student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tut oring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments  are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XVI. 2023 Spring COVID -19 Protocols  
For the most recent communication regarding COVID -19 protocols, please visit: 
https://www.usf.edu/coronavirus/   
  
 
8 Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its univ ersity community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF Regulation 
3.027.   
 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific 
academic deci sion or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated 
published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from 
that used for other students.  
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibility Services (SAS) 
(SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to notify 
instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit the Student 
Accessibility Services website for more information.  
 
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process (USF Regulation 3.025) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the a cademic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, 
or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well -being of self 
or other p ersons.  
 
 
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance in 
classes. Student s with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull (feedabull@usf.edu or their 
website), or Student Outreach and Support (socat@usf.edu or their website).  
 
Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  
Students may, without prior not ice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the 
student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal or 
methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present in formation or 
teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class 
lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether individually or 
part of a group), class discussion, clinical pr esentations such as patient history, academic exercises 
involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private  
 
9 conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty member is 
prohibited. Record ings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class attendance 
and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty member. Failure to 
adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student Co nduct Code.  
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious 
observances, practices and beliefs (USF Policy 10 -045). The University of South Florida, through its 
faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising USF’s 
constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take examinations as determin ed by the 
university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time 
prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students should review the course requirements 
and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeabl e conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term 
may prevent a student from completing the academic requirements of a specific course. Students 
are expected to notify their instructors at the beginning of each academic term if they intend to be 
absent fo r a class or announced examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence (USF Policy 0 -004). The US F Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy: 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an educator, he 
or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For m ore information about Title IX, a full list of 
resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or 
stalking visit: usf.edu/title -ix  
 
Statement of Academic Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be nec essary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of t he student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF messages 
for important general information (USF Policy 6 -010).  
 
XVII. Important Dates to Remember  
For important  USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  