Template revised : 12/09/2021  1 ISM 4641: Python for Business Analytics  
CRN: 24739 , Section: 901, Credit Hours: 3  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Semester   Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days   M 
Class Meeting Time   06:30 PM – 09:15 PM  
Class Meeting Location   BSN 1102  
Instructor   Arindam Ray  
Office Location   CIS 2046  
Office Hours   M 05:00  PM – 06:00  pm 
Email   arindamray@usf.edu  
I. Welcome!
Python for Business Analytics, as the name suggests, is a class for learning Python programming  
language in the context of applications in Business Analytics. Python is one of the most popular  
languages now,  or shall I say most popular,  as tracked by https://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html. The  
course will primarily be divided into three modules –
•Python Basics
•Data Wrangling and Visualization
•Analytical Modeling
II. University Course Description
Introduction to Programming using Python i s a hands-o n course using projects, providing in-d epth  
understanding and application of programming, machine learning,  and data science.
III. Course Prerequisites
ISM 3011 with a minimum grade of C-
IV. Course Format
The course will be delivered as in-c lass sessions with a combination of lectures and hands-o n 
exercises.
V. Student Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students will  be able to:
•Understand basic and advanced data types in Python and apply their understanding to  
import and clean datasets
•Understand various functions of Python and develop customized methods and functions
•Demonstrate knowledge in selecting and developing proper syntaxes and decision  
structures for the analysis
•Apply their knowledge of programing and data analysis to select, design and train Machine  
Learning algorithms to solve data-d riven business problems.
•Understand the application and purposes of different machine learning techniques  
(including clustering and classification algorithms), understand the nature of the problem  
and the required steps for applying the techniques correctly.
 
 
2 • Demonstrate knowledge of making meaningful inferences from analyzed datasets and 
generated results  
• Selecting proper visualization methods and communicating the findings  
 VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Machine Learning with Python Cook book, Chris Albon, O'Reilly Media, March 2018, 
ISBN:  9781491989388 
 VII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
• Learning Python, 5 th Edition, Mark Lutz, O'Reilly Media, ISBN: 9781449355739  
• A Whirlwind Tour of Python, Jake VanderPlas, O'Reilly Media, Inc. , ISBN: 9781491964644  
(Free to read from https://jakevdp.github.io/WhirlwindTourOfPython/
)  
• Automate the Boring Stuff with Python, 2nd Edition,  Al Sweigart, N o Starch Press; ISBN: 
9781593279929 (Free to read from https://automatetheboringstuff.com/ )  
• Python Machine Learning for Beginners, AI Publishing LLC; ISBN: 9781734790153  
 
VIII. Communication  
Announcements : Class announcements will be done through Canvas. Please check Canvas r egularly 
for announcements, as well as, for other class materials.  
Office Hours : S tudents with open questions are encouraged to attend office hours at M 05:00 pm  – 
06:00 pm at CIS 2046. The office hours will be utilized only for questions from  the students’ side, so 
in case you do not have any questions, you need not attend the same.  
E-m ail: In case of any query beyond office hours, yo u may send your instructor an e -m ail directly  
from your USF e -m ail account, please put “ [Fall 2022, ISM 4641] ” as the opening tag in the title  
o
f your email. Your instructor usually responds to your e -m
ails within 1 business day . Your instructor 
will sen d communications  through the Canvas system . However , he may also communicate directly 
to your USF e -m
ail account . Your instructor expects that you respond to your instructor’s e
-m
ails 
within 1 business day  if requested.   
 
I
X. Grading Scale  
Grading Scale (%)  
90-100 A 
80 - 89 B 
70 - 79 C 
60 - 69 D 
0 - 59 F 
 X. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
Assignments (2 Nos – 20% each)  40%  
Midterm Exam/Quiz (2 Nos – 15% each)  30%  
Final Project (including Video Submission/Presentation)  30%  
 100%  
  
 
3 XI. Course Schedule  
 
Week  Dates  Topics  Modules  
1 01/09/202 3 • Instructor and student introduction  
• Syllabus walkthrough (assignments, projects, 
expectations, course format) 
• Introducing Python  
• Environment set -up 
• “Hello World!”  
• Basic Semantics – Variables and Operators  Python Basics  
 2 01/16/202 3 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday , No Class   
3 01/23/2023  • Control Flow  
• Data Structures  
4 01/30/2023  • Functions  
• Modules  
• Closure of Module 1: Python Basics  
Assignment 1  (Python Basics)  
• Basic Data operations  – Introduction to NumPy  
Data Wrangling and 
Visualization  5 02/06/2023  • Advanced Data operations  – Introduction to Pandas  
Quiz 1 (Python Basics)  
6 02/13/2023  • Data visualization – Introduction  to MatPlotL ib 
• Closure of Module 2: Data Wrangling and 
Visualization  
Assignment 2 (Data Wrangling and Visualization)  
7 02/20/2023  • Supervised Learning - Regression  
Analytical Modeling  
 Quiz 2 (Data Wrangling and Visualization)  
8 02/27/2023  • Supervised Learning – Regression  
• Supervised Learning – Feature Selection , Data 
Standardization  
9 03/06/202 3 • Supervised Learning – Classification  (Logistic 
Regression) 
10 03/13/202 3 Spring Break. No Class  
11 03/20/ 2023  • Supervised Learning – Classification  (SVM, KNN ) 
11 03/27/2023  • Supervised Learning – Clustering  (K-Means ) 
12 04/03/2023  • Other Machine Learning algorithms  
13 04/10/2023  Final Project Presentations  
 14 04/17/2023  Final Project Presentations  
15 04/24/2023  Final Project Presentations  
* Note: all the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the 
instructor.   
 
4  
XII. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XIII. Course Policies: Grades ( include sections  as applicable to your course ) 
 
Ma
ke-Up Policy: Make -u
p assignments/quizzes will not be given. If a student misses an 
assignment/quiz, she/he will receive zero credit for the missed one. If a student has to miss an exam 
under absolute dire emergencies, she/he should not ify the instructor as soon as possible and 
provide proper written documentation (such as a signed letter from a medical professional which excuses the student from any school activities during the open period of assignments/quizzes).  
 L
ate Work Policy: Assignments turned in late will be assessed a penalty: 10% for each calendar day 
of delay. It  will not be accepted if overdue by more than three days.   
Please note that the final project submission cannot be delayed as the final grades need to be submitted to the University within a given timeframe.  
Please do not wait until the last moment for the submission. Excuse of a technology failure will not be accepted as a valid reason and may result in penalty per the late work policy.  
 Project Assignment Policy: The project assignments need to be completed individually. Each 
member of the class must submit a project.  
 
Extra Credit Policy:  Throughout the semester, depending on the progress rate of the course, in -
class exercise (s) might b e given for extra credit.  Points earned in this manner will not be included in 
the assignment or exam grade. Extra credit may result in an increase in your final letter grade, especially in borderline situations, and will never reduce your grade. For this reason, you should take full advantage of extra credit opportunities.  The extra credit exercises will not be announced 
in advance, students are expected to attend all the classes to take such opportunities.  
  
XIV. Course Policies : Technology and Media  (include sections as applicable to your course ) 
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas . In case of 
any technical challenges with Canvas,  you may contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or 
help@usf.edu
. 
 
Online Exam Proctoring : The course may use  online proctoring  for assignments/quizzes. Please see 
below:   
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including the online  terms  and video  
testing  requirements,  to determine  if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in the 
course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect  to drop or 
withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring. Therefore,  students  
will be required to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam  
or quiz. Students  understand that  this remote  recording d evice  is purchased and controlled  by  
 
5 the student  and that  recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  with  the permission  
of any person residing in the residence.   
To avoid any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with  concerns  may  discuss  location of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  
their  instructor  or advisor.   
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and 
accept  all responsibility and liability for violations  of any third- party  privacy  concerns.   
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring that they  take  all exams  using a reliable  computer  
and high- speed  internet  connection.  Setup information  will be provided prior  to taking the 
proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required to download  and install  
the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional information  please  visit the USF 
online  proctoring student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .   
 
Student -to-Student Communication: While students may use digital communication tools 
(WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that 
academic integrity policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests  is prohibited by the official regulation
, as is receiving unauthorized information about an 
examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such violations 
to the instructor.  
 
Laptop Usage: As it is a programming language course, all students are expected to have their 
laptops during class hours to do in -class exercises and take part in quizzes/assignments.  
 
XV. Course Policies: Stu dent Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort 
to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as 
Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible 
options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations 
may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about 
Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . I f you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity
 specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
Professionalism Policy:  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette,  mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  
during all classroom lectures.  
Please arrive on time for all class meetings  not to  disturb the class by walking in  late.   
 
6  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by e mail when the response window opens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 