 
Template revise d: 09/6/2022          1  
 
 
 
QMB 6436: Operations & Supply Chain Processes  
CRN: 2 4190, Section # 52 2 (100% Online ), 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring 2023 
Class Meeting Days: None ( For course updates, Tuesday will be treated as the day of class ) 
Class Meeting Time : None  
Section # 521 (100% Online  section – Asynchronous – Recordings and Demo Videos will be made 
available)  
However, optional weekly sessions will be conducted remotely on Microsoft Teams to help students . 
 
Instructor:  Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu  
Office Location:  USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -C229  
Office Hours:  To be held remotely on Microsoft Teams – Schedule  to be announced   
Questions will be answered through E -mail. Need to discuss in person, please attend any Teams 
session or send an E -mail. Additional Live Microsoft Teams sessions may be organized if and as 
needed.  
Email:  RGovindu@usf.edu  (Always use Canvas Inbox to send e -mails)  
 
Note:  This is a 3 -credit hour course. A 3 -credit hour course means, 3 hours per week of in -class 
instruction over the semester. Time for course preparatio n and r eading assignments; and time for 
completing homework assignments, quizzes, and exams  will be extra (out-side of instructional time) 
just like any other course students take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to a n ew semester and ISM 6436: Operations & Supply Chain Processes 
course.; you will learn critical thinking, problem solving, analytical skills that would help you 
throughout your career in business and industry. The purpose of ISM 6436: Operations & Supply 
Chain Process is about adding value in an organization using tools and techniques to improve 
activities – activities related Operations and Supply Chain processes.  
 
II. University Course Description  
“Operations Processes is an overview of several aspects of Oper ations management, a discipline in 
business concerned with managing the transformation of inputs into outputs.”    
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
Basic Statistics .  
 
 
 
2 IV. Course Purpose   
Operations / Supply Chain Management is perhaps one of (if not) the most important discipline in 
business that deals with transforming of inputs into outputs, be it a manufacturing or service industry. 
Inputs include materials, facilities, resources, people, and capital; and the outputs typically are goods 
and/or services that are manufactured / provided and delivered to either internal or external customers 
or both. How efficiently or inefficiently the underlying operations and supply chain processes are 
managed can either make or break a business. In addition to having a major  cost centric focus; through 
better planning, designing, and organization; Operations and Supply Chain Processes help a business 
improve its topline through higher revenues, throughput, and development of superior 
products/services. The primary purpose of this course is to provide a contemporary overview of the 
management of Operations Supply Chain Processes relating to manufactured products and/or services. 
A judicial mix of both concepts and tools/techniques used to improve and efficiently manage processe s 
will be covered.  
 
In order to help students in acquiring skills to better manage Operations and Supply Chain Processes; 
this course designed to include a prudent mix of lectures and discussions, textbook chapter readings, a 
set of additional readings/cas es based on industry applications, article presentations by student groups. 
Students will engage in several tasks and activities to acquire skills on utilizing tools and methods for 
analyzing, designing, redesigning, planning, managing, and improving Opera tions and Supply Chain 
Processes. Students will also acquire skills and knowledge through a series of Readings and Quizzes (that 
focus on the conceptual issues relating to Operations and Supply Chain Management), and HW 
assignments will involve a combinati on of problem solving and reflective learning through real -world 
application examples and discussions based on them. All course material will be posted on Canvas. All 
quizzes and exams will be conducted online through Canvas using the online proctoring too l Honorlock 
and students will submit their exam reports through Canvas. Students will submit all homework 
assignments through Canvas.  
 
V. Course Objectives  
At the conclusion of the course students would acquire conceptual knowledge and develop 
expertise in applying tools and methods for improving business operations and decision making. 
In particular, students learn to:  
• Analyze issues related to managing oper ations and supply chains in manufacturing/service 
industries - issues including but not limited: to business process mapping, analysis, design.  
• Apply quantitative tools like forecasting and optimization for planning, scheduling, and 
improving business oper ations  
• Improve business operations utilizing some of the tools from Quality Management, 
Quality Control, and Six -Sigma Concepts  
• Understand Independent Demand Inventory, Inventory Types, and Apply Inventory 
Management Systems  
• Understand Dependent Demand Inv entory, Demand Planning, Material Requirements 
Planning (MRP), and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
 
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
• Appreciate and understand how operations can be an important competitive weapon for 
businesses  
• Understand the basics of operations management in manufacturing and services and their 
differences   
 
3 • Learn to apply tools and methods for managing and improving quality and sigma levels for 
CTQs/KPIs for products, processes and services for business performance improvement  
• Learn the fundamentals of Independent and Dependent Demand Inventory  
• Learn product -process matrix, layouts, and apply tools to Design and Analyze a Processes for 
better performance  
• Analyze time -series patterns, apply basic and advanced quantitative methods for forecasting 
demand/sales for products and services; and identify the best method through forecast accuracy 
measures  
• Formulate, solve, and perform sensitivity analyses on cost minimization and  profit maximization 
decision -making optimization models to improve; operations/supply chain planning, scheduling, 
staffing, logistics, … for business performance improvement  
 
VII. Required Text book  
• Operations & Supply Chain Management for the 21st Century, by Boyer and Verma, First 
Edition, Cengage Learning, ISBN -13: 9780618749331  
This course covers a variety of topics including:  
o Operations and Supply Chain Strategy (Chapter 1)  
o Quality Management, Six Sigma, and Quality Control (Chapters 2 and 11)  
o Independent &  Dependent Demand Inventory (Chapter 6 and Chapter 7)  
o Process Modeling (Chapter 4)  
o Forecasting (Chapter 5)  
o Optimization (Chapter 9)  
 
• In this course we use “Microsoft Excel” extensively . If you don’t have Microsoft Office on your 
system, as a student of USF you are allowed free download and installation of Microsoft Office for 
personal use. Check out the info at: https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -
download.aspx . 
 
• Details on Software package to be used will be shared with students when it is needed.  
 
VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Additi onal supplementary (optional) documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed for the 
benefit of students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge. However, students 
will not be tested on the content.  
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course  
There is no way to do well in the course without learning. Just follow all the instructions and 
directions provided in the weekly communications. Be on time with learning. Complete the reading 
assignments, attend all classes, listen/view recordings if and as posted. Complete all the tasks 
assigned – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams. HW assignments is where you learn. Review 
solutions to problems posted to bridge any gaps in learning. Prepare well for exams. If you follow 
the above advise, you will do well.  
 
X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued 
pandemic or hurricane season. If the university transition to remote instruction , classes will be held via 
live, synchronous sessions usin g Microsoft Teams  and attendance  will be required just like in regular 
classes. You will find the Teams sessions links on your USF Email calendar and Microsoft Teams calendar. 
All course material will be in our course on Canvas.  
  
 
4 XI. Communication  
I will communicate with you through Emails from Canvas Inbox. You must also communicate with the 
instructor and the teaching assistant through E -mails from Canvas Inbox. You will find information on 
tone and etiquette when communicating under “Course Polic ies: Technology and Media .” I should be 
able to respond to your e -mails within a day or two at the max  depending on weekday/weekends . It can 
be a bit longer if I am travelling and out of network reach. But I will do my best to respond to you as 
quickly as I can.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
97% – 100%  A+ 
93% – < 97%  A 
90% – < 93%  A- 
87% – < 90%  B+ 
83% – < 87%  B 
80% – < 83%  B- 
77% – < 80%  C+ 
73% – < 77%  C 
70% – < 73%  C- 
67% – < 70%  D+ 
63% – < 67%  D 
60% – < 63%  D- 
0% – < 60%  F 
 
o It is mandatory that students must write both Exam #1 and Exam #2 to earn a final grade in the 
course. Students who do not attempt both the exams will be assigned an “F” grade.  
o Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be 
entertained .  
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Weights  
(%of Final Grade)  
Homework Assignments  (on-line submission through Canvas)  30%  
Quizzes  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 30%  
Exam #1  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20%  
Exam #2  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20%  
          Total      100%  
 
XIV. Additional Details on the Course Assignments and Grading Policies  
 
COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Course participation is mandatory throughout the semester. Quizzes, Homework assignments, and 
Exams are due by the deadline.  There will be no exceptions to this policy.  
 
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:   
 
5 All Homework assignments are individual tasks. Every week specific topic/s will be covered along with 
solved example problems. Homework will be assigned on Canvas on Tuesday night that wou ld consist 
of a set of problems/tasks based on the course topic content. You will have approximately four to six 
days to solve the problems/complete the tasks and to create a Report. You will submit the report as 
only one single file  on Canvas. The strict dea dline for HW submission on Canvas will be 11:59 p.m. US 
Eastern on Monday as indicated unless specified otherwise . See the Course Schedule in this document 
for the due dates of homework assignments. No late submissions shall be allowed under any 
circumstan ces. No e -mail submissions or hard -copy submissions are accepted . You get partial credit for 
incomplete submissions . HW report must demonstrate student’s own work . If any HW reports are 
found to be copied, ALL students who either helped or received help sh all be treated as violators, will 
receive a zero score, and be reported for academic dishonesty under USF’s policies on academic 
dishonesty. All HW scores shall count towards the final grade . Homework Reports will be graded for 
‘Relevancy’ and ‘Completenes s’ but not for ‘Accuracy .’ As long as the submissions are on time, 
relevant, and complete; you get full points . Solutions ( to problems and not for the other general 
descriptive task questions ) will be made available on Canvas within a couple of days past t he deadline. 
Students have to compare solutions with your answers and learn from the same in preparation for 
exams. If you need help, set up some time with the instructor to discuss. Please remember that solving 
Homework Assignments on your own is the most  important step in preparing for exams .    
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS AND QUIZZES:  
Every week specific topic/s will be covered in class. To maximize the learning, specific readings are 
assigned that need to be completed before the deadlines indicated before in -class discussion on the 
topic. There will be a Quiz assigned based on the topi cs covered. All Quizzes are individual tasks 
administered on -line through Canvas and will be open -book, open -notes type.  However, do not expect 
to find the answ ers directly in the textbook.  Quizzes test your understanding  for the subject matter,  
and they not meant to test students ability to search and find answers from the book.  Each quiz 
consists of a set of “multiple choice” and/or “fill -in the blank” type of questions perhaps 25 -50 per 
Quiz. Each quiz will be graded for accuracy, timed, and must be completed within the allotted time 
indicated and can be attempted only once. You must submit the quizzes within the time -window 
provided and certainly before the deadlines indicated (refer detailed course sch edule at the end of this 
document . The strict dea dline for HW submission on Canvas will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern on Monday 
as indicated unless specified otherwise . No late submissions shall be allowed under any circumstances .  
All quiz scores shall count towards final grade . A missed quiz will result in a score of zero. Quiz 
solutions will be made available within a couple of days p ast the deadline. Academic dishonesty will be 
dealt with very strictly under university policies. All the quizzes will be conducted using Honorlock 
based on USF policies. Read the section on “Online Proctoring of Quizzes and Exams” below .  
 
EXAMS:  
All Exa ms are individual tasks. There will be two exams in all and both of them will be take home type 
administered on Canvas -Honorlock. Exams will be of open -textbook and open -notes type. You can also 
refer to PPT files and all the other material including  my HW solutions as posted in our course on 
Canvas if needed . Exams will be assigned as indicated and are due before 11:59 p.m. on the days as 
indicated in the course schedule at the end of this document). Exams will consist of a set of 
problems/tasks similar to the ones on homework assignments. You will have  a time -window to 
attempt the exam just ONE -TIME. You will complete the exam within the allowed exam duration and 
submit it on Canvas only as one single file  just like what you do for the homework assignment 
submissions. No late submissions shall be allowe d under any circumstances . You must make sure that 
you complete the exam during the time window allowed or be prepared to lose points. Exams will be 
graded for Accuracy. All exam scores shall count towards final grade . There will be no make -up exams  
 
6 given . Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies. Read the section 
on “Online Proctoring of Quizzes and Exams” below.  
 
No Make -up Work and No Extra Credit Policy:  
No Make -up work and No Extra Credit work will be assigned. T here is no need to do any extra work in 
this course. Just do what you have been assigned on -time without -fail whatever may be your 
circumstances to become eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams) 
assigned in this course shall  count towards your grade. As all the dates have been announced at the 
beginning of the semester, if a student fails to meet the deadline zero points will be assigned. No 
exceptions. Any exception will be made ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalization s of the student 
with proper official documentation from the doctor and the hospital.  
 
XV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
 
Any feedback will be provided on Canvas. Grades will be posted on Canvas typically within a week or 
two past the deadline after resolving for any student issues.  
 
All submissions happen on Canvas. Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the 
subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. Students will know their Quiz score immediately 
after su bmission but not solutions key. For academic integrity reasons, Quiz solutions and HW solutions 
will be made available within 1 -2 days (if any issues need to be resolved) after the deadline passes. 
Grades and comments (as appropriate) for Homework assignme nts and Exams will be posted on Canvas 
typically within 1 -2 weeks past the respective due dates. If any delays happen beyond that time frame 
due to unforeseen circumstances, students will be informed of the possible delays through e -mail. You 
can access yo ur scores at any time using "Gradebook" in Canvas after they are posted.  
   
 
7 XVI. Course Schedule . (* Note: Th is Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed)  
 
In this course, Tuesday  will be treated as the class meeting day, and Tuesday -thru -Monday  will be 
treated as a week.   
 
Week  Date  Details  
#1 1/10 – 1/16  Topic: Introduction to Operations and Supply Chain Processes  
Topic: Chapter 1 – Operations and Supply Chain Strategy  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 1 by Tuesday, 1/10  
o HW #0 (Self Introduction) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Thursday, 1/12  
o HW #1 (Discussion) – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Saturday, 1/14  Review 
multiple peer reports, provide feedback, and share your thoug hts on what you 
learned from their examples – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 1/16  
o Quiz #1 on Chapter 1 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 1/16  
#2 
#3 1/17 – 1/23  
1/24 – 1/30  Topic: Chapter 2 – Quality Management  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 2 by Tuesday, 1/17  
o HW #2a (Discussion) – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Saturday, 1/21  Review 
multiple peer reports, provide feedback, and share your thoughts on what you 
learned from their examples – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 1/23  
o HW #2b (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 1/30  
o Quiz #2 on Chapter 2 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 1/30  
#4 
#5 1/31 – 2/6 
2/7 – 2/13  Topic: Chapter 11 – Quality Improvement Methods  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 11 – by Tuesday, 1/31  
o HW #3a (Discussion) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Saturday, 2/4 . Review multiple 
peer reports, provide feedback, and share your thoughts on what you learned 
from their examples – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/6  
o HW #3b (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m . Monday, 2/13  
o Quiz #3 on Chapter 11 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/13  
#6 2/14 – 2/20  
 Topic: Chapter 6 – Independent Demand Inventory  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 6 – by Tuesday, 2/14  
o HW #4 (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/20  
o Quiz #4 on Chapter 6 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/20  
#7 2/21 – 2/27  Topic: Chapter 7 – Dependent Demand Inventory  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 7 by Tuesday, 2/21  
o HW #5 (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/2 7 
o Quiz #5 on Chapter 7 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 2/2 7 
#8 2/28 – 3/6 Review for Exam #1 (on Chapters 2, 11, 6, and 7)  
o Exam #1 (Take -Home on Chapters 2, 11, 6, and 7)  
Exam Window: Saturday 3/ 4 through 11:59 p.m. Monday, 3/ 6 
#9 3/7 – 3/13  Topic: Chapter 4 – Process Design and Analysis   
 
8 Week  Date  Details  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 4 – by Tuesday, 3/ 7 
o HW #6 (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 3/1 3 
o Quiz #6 on Chapter 4 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 3/1 3 
 3/13 -3/19  Spring Break Week – No Class  
#10 
#11 3/21 –3/27  
3/28 – 4/3 
 Topic: Chapter 5 – Forecasting  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 5 by Tuesday, 3/2 1 
o HW #7a (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 3/2 7 
o Quiz #7 on Chapter 5 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/ 3 
o HW #7b (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/ 3 
#12 
#13 4/4 – 4/10  
4/11 – 4/17  
 Topic: Chapter 9 – Optimization  
o Reading Assignment: Read Chapter 9 by Tuesday, 4/ 4 
o HW #8a (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/1 0 
o Quiz #8 on Chapter 9 – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/1 7 
o HW #8b (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/1 7 
#14 4/18 –4/24  Topic: Case Studies  
o HW #9 (Problems) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 4/2 4 
#15 4/25–5/1 Review for Exam #2 (on Chapters 4, 5, and 9)  
o Exam #2 (Take -Home on Chapters 4, 5, and 9 )                       
Exam Window: Saturday 4/29 through 11:59 p.m. Monday, 5/1  
 5/12  Grades visible on OASIS  
 
* Notes:  
• The Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed during the semester  
• All the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor.  
 
   
 
9 XVII. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review 
these online: usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx     
 
XVIII.  Course Policies: Gra des  
 
Online Proctoring: Online exams and quizzes within this course will require online proctoring. Quizzes 
and examinations will be administered using online proctoring tool - Honorlock . Keeping the audio and 
video (microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is necess ary. Therefore, students will 
be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. 
Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and 
that recordings from any private  residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in 
the residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure  private settings for 
recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any 
third -party privacy rights and acc ept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party 
privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional 
information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
    
Late Work Policy : No late work will be allowed in this course be it for HW assignments, Quizzes, or 
Exams.  Student acquisition of knowledge in this course happens cumulatively. The nature of the course 
is such that student learning of topics must happen on a weekly basis as scheduled. Otherwise, it will 
affect learning the subsequent weeks. All the due dates for the tasks in this course are announced on 
day 1. It is the responsibility of students to submit their work well ahead of time and to meet all the 
deadlines. If proper, correct, and valid submissions do not happen before the respective deadlines; zero 
points will be recorded for the task. The only exception to this policy will be documented medical 
emergencies (if any) for the student needing medical attention with proper medical / hospitalization 
certificate. As all the dates have been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, 
or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late by a second will not qualify for any 
exceptions or  concessions as far as the assignment submissions go. Assignments not submitted on time 
mean assignment was not turned in and will earn a zero credit.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : There will be No Extra Credit in this course.  There is no need to do any extra work  
in this course. Just do what you have been assigned on -time without -missing the deadlines to become 
eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams) assigned in this course shall 
count towards your grade. If you fail to meet the dea dline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No 
exceptions. Any exception will be made ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student 
with proper official documentation from the doctor/hospital.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Students cann ot demand an “I” grade as they wish. If any student is not 
earning good grades, that cannot become a basis for asking for an “I” Grade. In such cases “I” grade 
cannot be awarded. It can be requested only under exceptional circumstances for valid reasons an d a 
decision will be made based on USF policy.  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion 
of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing  
 
10 grade . The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For 
undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or no t 
the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this 
time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time 
limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropri ate. 
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor a nd student must complete and sign the 
"I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade 
the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were 
due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate co urses 
and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted 
on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : There will be no rewrites in this course. All quizzes and exams can be attempted only 
once. Students can submit their HW reports multiple times, but all the submissions must happen only 
before the set deadline (and not after).  
 
Make -up Exams Policy : There will be No Make -up Exams in this course. Exams can be attempted only 
once. Time windows for the Exams are announced on  Day 1. It is the student responsibility to adjust 
their schedules to give their exams during the exam time window. No change of dates will be 
entertained unless there is absolutely an exceptional circumstance at student’s end and for documented 
medical em ergencies and only if student has notified the instructor in advance and certainly not after 
the deadline passes. As all the dates have been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on 
office trip, or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, o r being late will not qualify for any exceptions 
or concessions. If Exams are not submitted on time, zero points will be recorded.  
 
Exam Retention Policy : Not applicable for this course as all the Exams are Honorlock  -based. Student 
submission happen on Ca nvas so there will be an electronic record. So, whatever USF policy is for 
Canvas course retention that applies for the course.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy : Not applicable.  
 
Group Work Policy : All the tasks in the course – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams are individual 
tasks. There is no group work allowed in this course. If there is any group work in the group work, that 
would be plagiarism. In such instances, action will be taken on students based on USF policy on 
academic integrity violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final 
examination policy.  
 
Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can  
 
11 be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that 
certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage 
with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does 
not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIX. Course Policies: Tech nology and Media  
 
Email : I am Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu, and I will be your instructor for this course. My e -mail address is: 
RGovindu@usf.edu . If you are e -mailing me, as a courtesy,  please commence your email with a greeting 
such as “Dear Dr. Govindu,” “Hello Dr. Govindu,” or “Dr. Govindu.” Please write the appropriate subject 
and please print your name  at the bottom of the email.  
 
How to communicate with me  
Given the ongoing pandemic situation, the best way to reach me is through e -mail that will be quicker. 
Leaving voice message on my office phone would not be good during these pandemic times. Response 
times can be longer that way. Sending an e -mail would be  the best given the current situation. Should 
you need help with the course, we can set up time to discuss remotely at mutual convenience. 
Meanwhile, you can email me with the questions, and I may be able to clarify your questions through an 
e-mail. If at all needed, we can set up an appointment at mutual convenience for a tele -conversation 
and if possible and required a Microsoft Teams meeting.  
 
How NOT to communicate with me  
• Please don’t post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework submissions. I will not 
read your comments until I sit down to grade your assignment.  
• Please don’t email me from a non -USF email account.  
• Please don’t submit deliverables to me through e -mail. It will be treated as a non -submission.  
• Please don’t reply to a n email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject unless 
your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email 
address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and delete all previous  text from that email, 
if your email pertains to something else. In which case it is better to not use the “reply” button and 
just start a fresh email.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will use the Canvas messaging utility to send you all emails pertain ing to the course. So, you must check 
your USF mail account (and/or your e -mail where you receive USF e -mails by default). Whenever a 
student asks a question and I reply directly to that student. If and where the student question and my 
reply are especially important  for the rest of the class to know, I will send out a mass e -mail, hiding the 
student identity. Students over the years found such inputs quite beneficial for them.  
 
When students send me e -mails, I get them in my USF e -mail Inbox, and I will reply th rough my USF e -
mail. If I am sending e -mails, I will use Canvas messaging feature to send e -mails. You should also do the 
same. I deal with almost hundred students and sometimes even more and I receive hundreds of e -mails. 
When you send e -mails through Can vas, I will know  who you are, in which course of mine you are in, I 
will understand the context for the question, and what is it that you are asking and why. That will help 
me to respond quickly. Otherwise, it could take a little longer. I respon d very quickly – sometimes within 
minutes, sometimes within a few hours, sometimes within a day or so depending on the nature and 
importance of communication, circumstances, and the situation at my end. I respond on weekends too.  
 
12 But expect the response ti mes to be little longer if it is weekends and if I am travelling. But be assured I 
will respond, and I will respond to student e -mails very quickly as I am able to.  
 
Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your end are technology 
related you must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas Helpdesk, and/or Honorlock  Helpdesk depending 
on the issue, and they will help you immediately. I won’t be able to resolve your technology issues.  
 
Canvas : Describe how you will use Canvas in  the course, how often students should expect to login, how 
team activities will be organized, due dates, policies on late participation, etc.  
Example: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learni ng how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view Canvas videos, or consult the Canvas help guides. If new to Canvas, 
read this guide . You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Honorlock: In this course, we use Canvas - Honorlock  for all Quizzes and Exams. Students are therefore 
required to have a webcam with a microphone (either USB or mounted into your computer).   
All students must review th e syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing 
requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an 
agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withd raw from this course 
before the end of the drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be 
required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that 
recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the 
residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this re gard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The 
University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings 
and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the reco rdings with their 
instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible  for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and 
high-speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. 
To use Honorlock students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome 
extension  (Links to an external site.) ." For additional information please visit the USF online 
proctoring student FAQ  (Links to an external site.)  and Honorlock student resources  (Links to an 
external site.) .  
Students need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download the 
Honorlock extension. Your system also needs webcam, and you need to present your ID (any Photo 
ID would be enough you can simply u se your USF ID) for verification to get into Honorlock Quizzes 
and Exams.  
 
Specific information / instructions will be provided on all Honorlock Quizzes and Honorlock Exams. 
For additional information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proct oring student FAQ.  
  
 
13 WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication : While students may use digital 
communication tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students, it is important 
to remember that academic integrity policies sti ll apply in these environments. Informing others about 
the contents of tests is prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information 
about an examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.  
 
Laptop Usage:  You would need a proper laptop with microphone and webcam (either built in or 
external) for use in this course. Desc ribe your policies for using laptops throughout your course. 
Whether you dislike the use of laptops during your lecture, or whether you encourage using a laptop 
during discussion, or wish for all students using laptops to sit in a particular region of the classroom, feel 
free to state it here.  
 
Classroom Devices/Student Recording:  Not applicable. Describe your policies for using calculators, tape 
recorders, and other student -owned audio & technology devices for your course.  
 
Phone Usage: Describe your policies for student phone use in class, including texting or surfing the 
Interne t. If you are using social media for a “backchannel” conversation, mention it here. If you would 
prefer that students not take photos/video/audio recordings of you, or of the whiteboard notes at the 
end of the class, state so here.   
 
XX. Course Policies: Stude nt Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy:  In a 100% online, Course Participation serves as attendance Policy. Please refer to 
section XII for the details on Course Participation.  
Example: Students are expected to attend classes. Faculty must inform students of attendance 
requirements on syllabi. Instructors should accommodate excused absences by making 
arrangements with students ahead of time (when possible) or by providing a reasonable amount of 
time to make up missed work.  
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This doe s apply specifically 
to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary 
materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy:  Complete your work and submit reports on time e very time well before the 
respective deadlines on assignments.  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette, mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all 
classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroo m/lab 
immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on time for all class 
meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been 
warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will noti fy you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued.  
  
 
14 Food and Drink Policy:  Not Applicable.  
Example: Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products , or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for this policy 
and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this course Turnitin service will be utilized for all the assignmen ts to prevent plagiarism. 
The University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service 
which allows student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of 
web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. 
After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if 
and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process 
visit http://www.turn itin.com .  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students are 
requested to maintain confidentiality as a way to keep their personal contact information (i.e. , 
name, address, telephone) from being disclosed to vendors or other outside agencies. By your 
submission, you are also agreeing to release your original work for review for academic purposes to 
Turnitin. 
 
In order to comply with privacy laws, students ar e not required to include personal identifying 
information, such as name, in the body of the document. While submitting to Turnitin, PLEASE 
REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID#. 
ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE N AME AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., 
“U12345678 Essay 1.docx”) before submitting.  
 
Plagiarism:  
Definition of plagiarism  in USF Regulation 3.027.   
Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It 
includes submitting an assignment purporting to be the student’s original work which has 
wholly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of t he work, 
ideas, representations, or words of another person without customary and proper 
acknowledgement of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarification in 
any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue and will ha ve plagiarized in any 
situation in which their work is not properly documented.  
a) Every direct quotation must be identified by quotation marks or appropriate indentation and 
must be properly acknowledged by parenthetical citation in the text or in a foot note or 
endnote.  
b) When material from another source is paraphrased or summarized in whole or in part in 
one’s own words, that source must be acknowledged in a footnote or endnote, or by 
parenthetical citation in the text.  
c) Information gained in readin g or research that is not common professional knowledge must 
be acknowledged in a parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or endnote.  
d) This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the use of papers, reports, projects, and other 
such mat erials prepared by someone else.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines   
 
15 1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructi ve when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs , or 
other general differences.  
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be  perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XXI. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Stud ents with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promote s university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of S tudent Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseli ng Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available onli ne.   
 
16 Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to U SF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brai nstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing  studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXII. Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
Example:  
Drop/Add Deadline:    Fri, Jan 13, 202 3 
Dr. Martin Luther King Day Jr. Holiday : Mon, Jan 16, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Opens:    Mon, Feb 20, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Closes:    Tues, Mar 7 , 202 3 
Spring Break Week:    Mon, Mar 13 – Sun, Mar 19, 2023  
Withdrawal Deadline:    Sat, Mar 25 , 202 3 
Test Free Week:    Sat, Apr 22  - Fri, Apr 28 , 202 3 
Final Examination Week:    Sat, Apr 29  - Thurs, May 4 , 202 3 
 