CGS 2100 Computing in Business  
with Jeff J. Pelzer, Ed.S., MSCIS  
Course Syllabus  
Spring 2023  
3 Credits  
Contact information:  
Online Office Number 813.703.2399  
Voice or Text  
Email Address:  
jpelzer1@usf.edu  
Office Hours (Day, Time):   
Tuesday 10:00 -11:00am  
Email or Text anytime  
(see Communication for more info)  Course and Section Number:  
CGS 2100 601S23  
Room Number:  
LPH 217  
Course Length:  
16 Weeks  
Course Schedule and Time:  
01/09/23 -05/04/23  
Tuesday  11:00 -1:45pm  
Important Dates:  
Add/Drop - 01/13 /23 
Spring Break - 03/13/23 -03/19/23  
Withdraw - 03/25/23  
End of Classes - 04/28/23  
Course Description : 
A study of the use and impact of computers in all areas of business organizations. 
Course focuses on current skills and technologies being adopted by businesses 
with emphasis on business etiquette, cloud computing and big data. Software that 
will be used includes Microsoft Excel and Word (you will need access to a 
computer with Microsoft Excel and Word); and internet software to include 
Microsoft Forms.  Students will also access career resources designed to assist in 
exploring the need for computer knowledge in the current job market.  
Prerequisites:  
None - GPA Requirements:   Undergraduate students who enter USF under the 
2001 -2002, or later, catalog are required to earn a grade of C, or better, in every 
undergraduate core class and an overall GPA of 2.0 for all undergraduate core 
classes.  
Textbook and Software :  
Required Textbook:  Everyday Etiquette, How to Navigate 101 Common and Uncommon Social 
Situatio ns, Patricia Rossi, ISBN 978 -0-312-60427 -1 
Business Computer Information Systems,  Emese Felvegi; Barbara Lave; Diane 
Shingledecker; Julie Romey ; Noreen Brown; Mary Schatz; OpenStax; Saylor 
Academy; University of Minnesota Libraries; and Robert McCarn (free download 
in Canvas)  
Required Software and Hardware:  
• Microsoft Office 365  
• Availability to a stable internet connection and ability to do and su bmit 
assignments online  
• Ability to install software on the computer used for the course  
• Access to a Windows computer to complete MS Access database 
assignments  
Canvas:  
The course materials are available online; you will need to have a computer that 
meets the minimum requirements and Internet access in order to complete the 
course.   Students are responsible for accessing the class page and familiarizing 
themselves with navigation of the site. The instructor is not responsible for the 
breakdown of technology  including, but not limited to any of the following: 
inability to submit assignments, Canvas downtime, operating system issues, 
incompatible software, Internet connections, nor any personal challenges you may 
face while dealing with the online delivery sys tem. 
Course objectives:  
An introduction to the use and impact of computers in all areas of business 
organizations, and some of the most widely used office productivity software 
packages.  
Learning goals:  
Upon successful completion of this course students w ill be able to:  
• Discuss how information systems can be used to support business 
organizations.  
• Navigate and create content‐rich documents using a word processing 
application.  
• Create simple spreadsheets and perform mathematical and financial 
calculations, build charts and format spreadsheets.  
• Critically interpret quantitative evidence (such as graphs, tables, charts) in 
order to identify false claims, incorrect use of evidence, or contradictory 
statements.  • Use a presentation tool to create pre sentations.  
• Use a visualization tool to create an information dashboard and interpret 
visualizations to produce business insights.  
• Create and edit database objects (Tables, Queries, Forms, Reports).  
• Collaborate using an online collaboration tool.  
Topics:  
• Information systems and organizations.  
• Word processing software  
• Spreadsheet software  
• Presentation software  
• Database Software  
Communication:  
Communication between the instructor and student is a critical success factor in any course. You 
are to use the Canvas Inbox (conversations) function or email to send messages to the instructor 
outside of office hours. During office hours you may text the number listed above.   If a question 
is asked, a response to your email will be received in within 1 -2 business days Monday -
Thursday.   Responses may be delayed over weekends and holidays.   
For any phone or email messages, please include:  
• Your name  
• The class  you are taking  
• A brief description of your concern  
Failure to include these items may delay instructor response.  
Assessment Methodologies:  
This course uses a variety of approaches to teach and assess learning.   Each assignment in this 
class has a specifi c due date.   Most  assignments will be scored: 100% - assignment completed 
and learning displayed, 75% - assignment mostly completed and/or a basic understanding 
demonstrated, 50% - assignment incomplete and/or gaps in an understanding are present, 25% - 
assignment incomplete and/or obvious lack of an understanding is demonstrated, 0% - no effort 
demonstrated or not submitted.  
Any assignment submitted that indicates a deliberate attempt to deceive the instructor will result 
in failure of the class and referr al to student services for possible further actions.   This includes, 
but is not limited to:  
• Cheating/Plagiarism  
• Manipulating font size/color to meet word/page count  • Submitting instructor provided examples  
• Incorrect file type or wrong assignment to buy addi tional time to submit work  
Assignments  
The use of AI in the development of work for this class is strictly prohibited unless the 
assignment explicitly states AI is to be used.  
You will complete various assignments throughout this class.   "Assignments" is a generic term 
which may describe an essay, Excel project, video or in -class presentation, or other.   These 
assignments are designed to enhance classroom lessons and show master y of concepts.   When 
specified, only .accdb (Microsost Access) and .xlsx (Microsoft Excel) files will be accepted for 
those specific assignments.   Students are instructed to access all assignments through the 
MODULES link in Canvas.   It is the only locatio n for content specific training and 
support.   There is no extra credit  offered in this class.  
All students must affirm they have been made aware of the policies and procedures for this class 
by completing the syllabus quiz before proceeding with coursework . 
Discussion Boards  
The purpose of the discussion board is to have a dialog with your peers about a specific topic. 
The goal of the discussion board is to create constructive interaction about current technology 
topics in society. In addition, the discussion allows you to develop the necessary professional 
online communication skills required in today’s workforce. The professional workplace online 
communication skills differ from those you use in social online communication. Also, 
professional commu nications require attention to grammar, spelling, sentence structure, and tone 
of content.  
Additionally, discussion boards, or forums, are provided to students so they can learn and 
practice professional communications online. (Increasingly, companies use such tools for 
customer support or team communications. Such communications use different posting skills 
than using social media does.) Students should not use the discussion boards as a platform for 
joking, off -topic posts, or cyberbullying. Do not post a nything that might be hurtful, and do not 
reply to such posts. All students must adhere to the USF acceptable use policy.  
The instructor will post the initial discussion question(s). You will respond to the message the 
instructor and your peers post in the  discussion board. Missed discussion board assignments 
cannot be made up . The discussion board is only available during the assigned period.  
Final Paper  
In lieu of a final exam, this class will have a Reflection Paper serve as not only a review of the 
class but as a personal growth experience.  
 Turning in Assignments:  
All assignments are due on the date and time indicated in Canvas. Assignments must be 
submitted through Canvas, emailed assignments are not accepted unless prior arrangements 
have been made . Once the due date has expired, you will not be able to submit assignments. All 
assignment deadlines are Eastern Time Zone. If at any point while taking this course, you aren’t 
in the Eastern Time Zone you can have Canvas show the deadlines based on the time  zone you 
reside in. This is done by changing your Canvas account settings. Please follow the instructions 
provided in the link below on how to change your time zone in Canvas.  
How to Change Your Time Zone in Canvas  (Links to an external site.)  
Late Assignment Policy:  
NO LATE ASSIGNMENTS will be accepted.  
Why?  
Working on late assignments impacts a student's ability to focus on the current assignments.  
All assignments are a vailable beginning the first day of class, in the event you may miss time it 
is encouraged that students work ahead.   Assignments are due on the dates listed on the Weekly 
Schedule and/or class calendar.   Once assignments are graded there will be no grade adjustments 
unless there was an error made by the instructor.   Changes to due dates or the dropping of 
assignments because of an interruption in instruction will be made at the instructor's 
discretion.   Please do not request extensions on assignments, they  will not be granted.  
Students are expected to keep up with the course work and complete/submit assignments on 
time.   Regardless of circumstances, no last minute, end -of-term requests to make up work or do 
extra credit will be granted.  
Course Summary:  
Asse ssment Breakdown:  
Assessment  Points Each  Possible Points  
Syllabus Quiz  5 5 
Discussions (7)  10 70 
Assignments (12)  20 240 
Final Paper  50 50 
TOTAL POINTS:    365 
 
   USF Grading 
Scale  
Letter 
Grade  Percentage  Points  
A+ 100.0 -97.1 365-354 
A 97.0-94.1 353-343 
A- 94.0-90.1 342-329 
B+ 90.0-87.1 328-318 
B 87.0-84.1 317-307 
B- 84.0-80.1 306-293 
C+ 80.0-77.1 292-281 
C 77.0-74.1 280-270 
C- 74.0-70.1 269-256 
D+ 70.0-67.1 255-245 
D 67.0-64.1 244-234 
D- 64.0-60.1 233-220 
F 60.0 and 
below  <219  
Attendance/Participation:  
To be successful, students will need to access course materials, check -in frequently, and attend 
all class meetings.   There is no grade penalty for missing class due to illness . 
Note:  All Students must access the cours e in Canvas and complete the Week 1/Module 0 
requirements by the assigned due date. Failure to show attendance (login to course) and 
participation (completion of an assignment/activity) in the course by the assigned due date will 
result in withdrawal for n on-attendance.  
Lecture and Hybrid students  are expected to attend class meetings. If you cannot attend all 
class meetings, students are encouraged to seek registration in an online version of this course 
that does not require face -to-face meetings.  
1. Class a ttendance is a requirement for this course, however if you are unwell, please stay 
home.  
2. The instructor may penalize students who do not attend class, or participate in class 
activities on a regular basis as deemed appropriate by the instructor.  
3. If you mis s a lecture or arrive late, you are responsible for the material presented, 
handouts distributed, and any announcements made that day. The instructor will not 
provide notes for missed classes.  
 Undergraduate Program Learning Goals Addressed in this Course  
The KTCOB program learning goals and objectives are  
LG1: Students will be effective communicators.  
Obj1.1: Students will write professional documents.  
Obj1.2: Students will prepare and deliver high quality oral presentations.  
LG2: Students will have critical thinking skills.  
Obj2.1: Students will develop solutions to business problems.  
LG3: Students will have foundational and discipline -specific business knowledge.  
LG4: Students will be competen t business professionals.  
Obj4.1: Students will display professionalism in business environments.  
This course makes the following contributions to the learning objectives:  
Obj3.1: Students will demonstrate foundational business knowledge.  
Obj3.2: Students will demonstrate focused knowledge of their chosen field of study.  
Obj. 1.1  Obj. 1.2  Obj. 2.1  Obj. 3.1  Obj. 3.2  Obj. 4.1  
IC (a)  IC (b)  E (c)  E (d)  NA (c)  I (f) 
*Definitions:  
I = Introduced = Topic/concept/learning objective is brought to the attention of students or is 
brought into use or operation for the first time.  
E = Emphasized = (already introduced) – Topic/concept/learning objective is given special 
importance or prominence or is made more clearly defined.  
R = Reinforced = (already intr oduced and emphasized) – Topic/concept/learning objective is 
strengthened with additional material or is covered more intensely or deeply.  
IC = Incidentally Covered = Topic/concept/learning objective is covered in a minor way and 
doesn’t rise to the level of being a course learning objective or being intentionally programmed 
into the course’s content to introduce, emphasize, or reinforce during the course. As an example, 
ethics may not be a learning objective on your course syllabus nor intentionally introd uced, 
emphasized or reinforced in the coverage of your course material, but it is incidentally covered 
or discussed as part of the other topics that are programmed into your course.  
Notes:  
(a) Students will write a reflective essay at the end of the course  
(b) Students will create a Prezi and present it to class  
(c) Course objective 4, 5, and 6. Students will learn to use the tools that they need to perform 
data analysis, one of the traits in the critical thinking rubric.  
(d) Course objectives 1 -6. (e) NA  
(f) Course objectives 7 and 8  
 USFSP Policies:  
Honor System:  
Under the USF Honor System, each student is expected to observe complete honesty in all 
academic matters.   Violation of the Honor System will be referred to the Honor 
Council.   Note:   The followin g are violations of the Honor Code:   Copying another student’s 
homework, signing another student’s name on the attendance roster, copying another group’s 
disk or written work, using another student’s computer disk to print out your assignment, 
copying anot her student’s file onto your disk, and misrepresenting a reason for a missed 
exam.   Punishment for academic dishonesty may result in an automatic “F” or “FF” in the course 
or action that may result in suspension or expulsion. See the USFSP Policy on Academ ic 
Integrity of Students at page 51 of the following 
links:  http://www.usfsp.edu/catalog/files/2017/12/USFSP -2017 -18-Undergraduate -Academic -
Catalog .pdf 
Students with Disabilities:  
Please notify your instructor by the second class meeting if you have a learning disability or 
require special assistance with this course.   Confidential personal and learning assistance 
counseling are made available to stu dents through the Division of Student Affairs.   Contact R. 
Barry McDowell, St. Petersburg Campus: Student Life Center (SLC 1203) (727) 873 -4990, 
(mcdowell@usfsp.edu) for more information. Students who need extended time on exams need 
to inform the Disabili ties Office at least seven (7) school days (Monday -Friday) in advance of 
the scheduled exam, so that the Disabilities Office has adequate time to inform me.  
Religious Observances:  
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the observance of a major 
religious holiday must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second 
class meeting.  
Copyrights:    
Students who wish to audiotape lectures can do so with direct permission from the professor, but 
tapes and lectures may not be sold or posted online. No videos or photos can be taken in the 
classroom.   
Incomplete Grades:  
An “I” grade may be given to an undergraduate student only when a small portion of the 
student’s work (normally 30% or less) is incomplete due to circumstances beyond the control of 
the student and only when a student is otherwise earning a passing grade.   “I” grades are to be 
used only in emergency situations and cannot to be used as a means of avoiding a poor grade. 
Normally these are only for medical emergencies and require a signed letter from a medical professional that the student was prevented from a ttending class. The student must petition the 
professor before the week of final exams for a grade of “I” to be given.  
Grade Forgiveness:  
Undergraduate grade forgiveness is limited to three USFSP courses with no more than one repeat 
per course.   Accountin g majors can use the forgiveness only once in upper level accounting 
courses. There is NO grade forgiveness at the Graduate Level.  
Withdrawal:  
No “W” grades can be obtained after the official drop or withdrawal date. All students enrolled 
as of the withdr awal date, will receive a letter grade of A, B+, B, C+, C, C -, D+, D or F.  
Electronic Plagiarism Detection:  
Students are hereby notified that the instructor intends to use electronic plagiarism detection 
services in this course. By registering for and part icipating in this course, students consent to 
their work being sent to, analyzed by and stored in any plagiarism detection service.  
Emergency Preparedness:  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Elluminate, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It 
is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas site for each class for course specific 
communication, and the main USF, College, and department websites, emails, and MoBull 
messages for important general information.  
Bomb Threat or other Disruption:  
All scheduled classes will be held in an alternate room in the case  of a bomb scare, fire alarm or 
other disruption. Students will gather outside of the classroom building at a designated area in 
the parking lot so that an alternative room may be announced.  
Supporting Crime Victims and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA):  
If you are the victim of a crime, USFSP is ready to assist you in the manner that you determine is 
best for you. Please know that, as a USF employee, I am obligated by Federal law to 
immediately report any incidents of sexual assault, dating & domestic viol ence, and stalking 
relayed to me – including the victim’s name – to the USFSP Police Department and/or the 
USFSP Dean of Students. If you desire confidentiality, there are campus and community 
resources listed below that will respect that decision.  
 Confid ential Resources  Non-Confidential Resources  
USFSP Victim Advocacy Services  
Available: 24hrs/7days  
Tel: 727 -698-2079  USFSP Police Department  
Tel: 727 -873-4140 or  
USFSP Wellness Center (SLC 2000)  
M/T/W/F: 8am – 5pm  
Thurs: 9:30am – 5pm  
Tel: 727-873-4422  Dean of Students & Director of Residence Life 
& Housing : Dr. Jacob Diaz PNM  
Tel: 727 -873-4823  
deanofstudents@usfsp.edu  
Rape Crisis Center of Pinellas County  
Tel: 727 -530-7273  
PEMHS: 727 -541-4628  Pinellas County Sheriff  
Tel: 727 -582-6200 or 91 1 
  
  St. Petersburg Police Department  
Tel: 727 -893-7780 or 911  
If you are not sure what to do, you are strongly encouraged to contact the USFSP Victim 
Advocate to confidentially explore your options including: Injunctions & Protective Orders on 
campus; Changes in Accommodations, Living Arrangements, Class Schedules, & 
Transportation; Assistance with Academic Issues – missed classes, late assignments, etc.   
Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’ s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF Regulation 
3.027 . 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses  at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective re view of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has 
violated published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other students.  
 Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic acc ommodations. SAS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit the 
Student  Accessibility Services website  for more information.  
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF Regulation 3.025 ) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) dire cts attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or 
well-being of self or other persons.  
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their perf ormance 
in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull ( feedabull@usf.edu  or 
their website ), or Student Outreach and Support ( socat@usf.edu  or their website ).  
Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)   
Preliminary Guidance Document  
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which 
the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a 
formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course inten ded to present 
information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other 
than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether 
individually or part of a group), class discus sion, clinical presentations such as patient history, 
academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field 
trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty 
member is p rohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and 
class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of t he USF Student 
Conduct Code .  
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beli efs (USF Policy 10 -045). The University of South 
Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations in view of customarily observed relig ious holidays of those religious groups or 
communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take 
examinations as determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit 
for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students 
should review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable 
conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the 
academic requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at 
the beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Ha rassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situati on to the  Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title I X and under the USF Policy, educators must 
report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, 
and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an 
educator, he or she is  required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about 
Title IX, a full list of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, 
relationship violence or stalking visit: usf.edu/title -ix 
Statement of Academic Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF  
messages for important general information ( USF Policy 6 -010). 
 