 
 
 
GEB  6895 -521: INTEGRATED BUSINESS  APPLICATIONS  – 3 Credit Hours  
SPRING 2023: SATURDAY , 8:30 AM – 12:30 PM 
B206 – SARASOTA CAMPUS  
PROFESSOR:           Edward R. Balotsky, Ph.D.  
                                   Office  Hours :  Live Classes Only - Saturday  12:30PM – 2:30PM          
                                   e-mail: balotsky@usf.edu  
             
 
OTHER TIMES BY APPOINTMENT  VIA MS TEAMS OR ZOOM . DO NOT HESITATE TO 
CONTACT ME IF YOU HA VE A QUESTION OR CONCERN THAT YOU WOULD LIKE 
TO DISCUSS   
 
UNIVERSITY COURSE DESCRIPTION  
 
This MBA capstone course affords students the opportunity to apply and integrate knowledge, 
skills, and experience in a semester -long, project -based course in which students create the 
strategic, marketing , and financial elements of a comprehensive business plan.  
 
COURSE OBJECTIVES  
The objectives of I ntegrated Business Applications  (IBA) are to:  
  
• Provide an opportunity for students to integrate and apply knowledge, skills, and 
experiences in a real -world, problem -solving environment  
• Simulate the often difficult strategic and operational choices and trade -offs organizations 
are required to make as they craft long -term and short -term plans  
• Help students gain  the skills required to develop a comprehensive business plan  
• Enhance students’ ability to work effectively in cross -functional teams  
• Enhance students’ critical thinking, communication, and presentation skills  
• Enhance students’ appreciation of business an alytics  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES  
Students who actively participate and complete all requirements for IBA should be able to:  
 
• Develop a comprehensive analysis of the economic, political -legal, technological, 
socio -cultural, and competitive environments in which organizations operate  
• Identify internal competencies and challenges for an organization  
• Conduct industry and market intelligence with resources provided at the USF Library  
• Perform a sophisticated target market analysis, identify a val ue proposition, and 
identify sustainable, differential competitive advantages  
• Use appropriate quantitative skills including statistical, financial , and other 
quantitative tools and techniques to assess critical success factors and forecast 
performance  
• Deve lop alternative scenarios in ambiguous and uncertain environments  
• Recommend action programs and implementation steps designed to successfully 
market, manage, and finance strategies and tactics  
• Forecast cash flows and calculate Net Present Value (NPV) for r ecommendation that 
have a financial impact  
• Understand and explain the relationship between risk and return  
• Work effectively within and understand the team environment of business  
• Develop effective written and oral presentations of project results  
 
HYBRID  BLEND CLASS FORMAT  
 
This course is a combination of live and online teaching modalities.  There are five l ive, in 
person , MANDATORY  class meetings: 1/14, 2/4, 3/4, 4/1, and 4/29. The remaining course 
work is conducted on -line either through asynchronous exer cises or via MS Teams.  
  
COURSE MATERIALS  
 
Textbook: Osterwalder, Alexander and Yves Pigneur (2010), Business Model Generation: A 
Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challenger , Wiley & Sons:  
ISBN 978 -0470 -87641 -1 
 
Extensive materials dealing with a strategic management model will be posted to Canvas.  
 
 GRADING AND EVALUATION  
  
Grade Component  Description  Percent  
of Grade    
Due Date  
Individual/Group Exercises    Organizational Profile (Group)    5%  Jan 21 
Interview Guide/Questions  (Group)   0%  Jan 28  
Financial Audit (Individual)    15%  Feb 18  
 SWOT Analysis (Individual)  10%  Mar 4  
Business Model Canvas (Individual)   10%  Mar 25  
Two Peer Evaluations (Individual)    5%  Mid-Term - Feb25  
Final - Apr 29  
Draft Written Report   0% Apr 1  
Final Written Report (Group)  50 page s document limit  40%  Apr 29  
Final Presentation (Group)  30 Minutes  15% Apr 29  
    
TOTAL     100%   Grade Percent Range  
  Final Grade  
97-100%  A+  
94-96%  A  
90-93%  A-  
87-89%  B+  
84-86%  B  
80-83%  B-  
77-79%  C+  
70-76%  C  
60-69%  D  
Below 60%  F  
  
PLEASE NOTE: An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion 
only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Con tract 
Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn 
factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  one semester from the original date grades were due for 
that course. An "I" grade not cleared within one semester will revert to the grade noted on the contract .   
 
COURSE ASSIGNMENTS  
  
Organizational Report   
  
Working on a real time organization is one of the best ways to understand and appreciate the 
strategic management function and the integrated  business  applications experience. In groups, 
you will thoroughly examine an organization and propose a course (s) of action usin g the 
knowledge and skills you have developed through your graduate studies while here at the 
University of South Florida (and supplemented by your personal work experience s if possible).    
  
Your team will serve in the role of a consulting firm. You will examine and assess an 
organization, identify critical issues the organization currently faces, and make 
recommendations for how the organization should address those issues.  
   
The project utilizes two strategic concepts, a strategic management technique, largely developed 
from the work of Michael Porter and the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), and the Business 
Model Canvas (BMC) created by Osterwalder and Pigneur. The specifics of the report will be 
discussed in class, but the expectations involve a written report in the 50 page s range, not 
counting appendices and a formal bibliography, as well as a 30 minute in -class presentation 
summarizing your findings. An excellent presentation provides c oncise, useful information 
about your analysis and how th ese findings  inform your recommendations. You should present 
your ideas clearly and provide prescriptive advice and suggestions. You may incorporate 
multimedia to make your presentation creative and engaging, such as video clips, audio clips, 
and website demonstration s. Grading Format  for the Written Report.  The grade is based on four equally key criteria: 
critical analysis (25%), comprehension (25%), clarity (25%), and professionalism (25%).  
Critical analysis : Demonstrate thoughtful, sophisticated, and insightful analysis, as 
opposed to superficial descriptions with no nuance. Develop sound reco mmendations.  
Comprehension : Demonstrate comprehension of the core course materials and topics.  
Clarity : Demonstrate clarity, coherence, and organization of your assertions with 
specific examples or data supporting your argument.  
Professionalism : Demonstr ate professional business writing skills, including proper 
grammar , correct spellings, along with appropriate citations in the main text and the 
reference list.  A parsimonious writing style demanded in a business setting is expected.    
Grading Format for the Presentation.  The grading of the presentation will focus on the 
following criteria: critical analysis (20%), comprehension (20%), organization (20%), 
communication aids (20%), and stage presence  (20%).   
Critical analysis : Your analysis is clear and co ncise with major points emphasized and 
insights provided. The analysis includes clear recommendations and logical conclusions.  
Comprehension : You display an excellent grasp of the course materials. You 
demonstrate mastery of contents, applications, and im plications. Your discussion is 
focused and in - depth.  
Organization : Your presentation is clear, concise, and well -organized. Points are easy to 
follow, and transitions between sections are smooth and coordinated.  
Communication  aids: Your presentation is easy to interpret, read, and understand. The 
media used are well -coordinated with content, well -designed, and used effectively.   
Stage presence : You appear confident and at ease. You use notes (if any) well, have 
good eye contact with the audience, and display appropriate gestures.  
 
Group Feedback : At the mid-point and end of the semester, you will evaluate your team 
members on their contribution s to the project. Your grade will reflect your group’s overall 
evaluation of your work. Each team member is evaluated on the following criteria:  
• Timeliness in arriving to meetings and completing assigned work  
• Active participation in meetings and group co mmunication  
• Quantity of work completed  
• Quality of work completed  
• Ease to work with (teamwork)  
  
USF SYSTEM POLICIES  
  
Policies and regulations are available at regulationspolicies.usf.edu   
 
Academic Integrity  
 
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, a nd fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct a nd the student’s options for appe al, are outlined in detail in USF Regulation  3.027 . 
Plagiarism from external sources, peers’ work, and your own previous work  is strictly 
prohibited. If you use ideas from others or yourselves, you must provide appropriate 
citations. Academic integrity is serious ! Please refer to university policies for guidance.  
 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
 
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and 
events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic g rievance” is a claim that 
a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has 
violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other student s.  
  
Disability Access  
 
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students 
to notify instructors of accommodation needs at l east five (5) business days prior to needing 
the accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please visit the Student 
Accessibility Services website  for more information.  
  
Disruption to Academic Progress  
  
Disruptive students in the aca demic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF Regulation 3.025 ) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the he alth, safety, or 
well-being of self or other persons.  
  
Food and Housing Insecurity  
  
We recognize that student s facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording needed  groceries may be at risk of these issues affecting class performance . Students 
with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull ( feedabull@usf.edu  or their website ), or 
Student Outreach and Support ( socat@usf.edu  or their website ).   
 
Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  
 
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which 
the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a 
formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a universit y course intended to present 
information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether 
individually or part of a group) , class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, 
academic exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field 
trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the facul ty 
member is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and 
class attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student  
Conduct Code .   
  
Religious Observances  
 
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs ( USF Policy 10 -045). The University of South 
Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required c lasses and 
examinations in view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or 
communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take 
examinations as determined by the university. No student sha ll be compelled to attend class or 
sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, 
students should review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable 
conflicts, as excessive class absences may prevent a student from completing the academic 
requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the start of 
each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced examination, in 
accordance with this Policy.  
  
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment  
 
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the Title IX  Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must 
report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based c rimes including sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to 
an educator, he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about 
Title IX, a full list of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, 
relationship violence or stalking visit: usf.edu/title -ix  
  
Statement of Academic Continuity  
 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. 
During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, 
but are not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each cla ss for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF  
messages for important general information ( USF Policy 6 -010).  
 Campus Free Expression  
 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s missio n to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. 
Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even  offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as 
an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigo rous debate, and that the idea(s) is 
supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that 
certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to 
engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an 
idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
 
WEEKLY  COURSE SCHEDULE  
(Subject  to Change)  
 
        DATE                          TOPIC                              ASSIGNMENTS/DELIVERABLES     
January  14*** 
 
LIVE SESSION  Course Introduction  
Deliverables  
Strategic Management 
Model  
Business Model Canvas  Personal Introductions  
Finalize Groups  
Compa ny Selection  
PP Slide Decks 1(a) and 1(b)  
January 21  More on Strategic 
Management Model and 
Business Model Canvas  Due:  Complete Company Selection/Group Profile  
Organizational Profile  
Readings:                                                           
Intro to Business Canvas Model - pp. 14 -51 
 
January 28  Stakeholder Value Creation  
Mission Statement  
Internal Audit Process  
Balanced Scorecard  Readings:  
Design Process for BCM – pp. 244 -273 
BCM fo r Strategy – pp. 200 -225 
Due:  Set meeting with USF Research Librarian  
Set meeting for client interview  and Interview 
guide/questions for client meeting  (if applicable)  
Develop team member responsibilities list showing 
individual tasks and due dates  
 PP Sli de Decks 2(a), 2(b), 2(c), and 2(d)   
February 4***  
 
LIVE SESSION  Financial Statement 
Analysis  
Financial Ratio Analysis  
 Due:  Your organization’s 10K Report Income 
Statement and Balance Sheet                                                                                
PP Slide Deck 3(a) and Deck 8  
February 11  External Audit Process  
Macro and Industry 
Environments  
 PP Slide Dec ks 4(a) and 4(b)    February 18  Types of strategies  
 Due: Financial Audit: Each student  will develop a 
spreadsheet containing the income statement, 
balance sheet, and key financial ratios for your 
organization over the past five years, highlighting 
any key  changes over that time.  
PP Slide Decks 5(a) and 5(b)  
February 25  Portfolio Analysis  
 Due:  Mid-semester Peer evaluation of group 
members . 
PP Slide Deck 6(a)  
March 4***  
 
LIVE SESSION  Review of Last three Weeks; 
Sales Forecasting and 
Marketing Implications  
 Due: SWOT Analysis Assignment: Each student 
submits  his/her own brief SWOT assessment 
(SWOT diagram and two pages explaining the four 
dimensions)  
 
March 11  Projecting Financial 
Statements  
  PP Slide Deck 8 (a)  
March 25  Financial Tools for Strategic 
Decision -Making  
 Due: Business Model Canvas Assignment: Each 
student  submits his/her own BMC with written 
analysis of the current situation  in your 
organization (BMC worksheet and three pages 
explaining the nine elements)  
 
April 1 *** 
LIVE SESSION  Strategic Choice in Select 
Industries   
CSR and Ethics  
 Due:  Draft of written report  
PP Deck 9 and Deck 11  
 
April 8  Organizational Structure  
 PP Deck 10(a), 10(b), and 10(c)  
April 15  Problems and Progress 
Session  
 Optional Live Group meetings  
April 22 Problems and Progress 
Session  
 Optional Live Group meetings  
April 29 *** 
LIVE SESSION  Final Presentations  
 Written projects and Power Point slides   
30 minute s final presentations  
 
***Indicates mandatory in -class meetings  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GEB  6895 _521 
TEAM MEMBER EVALUATION FORM: SPRING  2023 
 
Mid-Semester Evaluation:  ______________    or   Final Evaluation:  ___________________  
 
Team: ________________________________  Member:___________________________  
  
Please evaluate and rate the performance of your team members on the issues below.  Use a Likert scale of 0 (worst) 
to 10 (best).  Use only whole numbers and list the LAST names of your team’s members. Include yourself.  You can 
send this as an e -mail attachment or give it to me in cl ass. 
 
 1 2 3 4 5 
Team Member’s NAMES  
 
      
Rating Scale 0 = worst to 10 = best       
1. Attendance for team meetings, 
inside and outside class.       
2. On time for meetings and stayed 
for the duration.       
3. Prepared for each meeting.  
      
4. Support of team efforts, i.e. 
cooperative.       
5. Volunteered to do tasks.  
      
6. Aware of and met deadlines set by 
team.       
7. Insight and understanding of team 
tasks and sharing of knowledge.       
8. Quantity of work and effort.  
      
9. Quality of work.  
      
10. Overall contributions and value 
given to the team and its members.       
INDIVIDUAL TOTALS       
In terms of their total contribution to the 
group, do you believe this individual has done 
his/her fair share of work? Circle one  
 Yes 
 
More  
 
Less Yes 
 
More  
 
Less Yes 
 
More  
 
Less Yes 
 
More  
 
Less Yes 
 
More  
 
Less 
Would you voluntarily choose her/him to be 
on your team again?  Circle one  
 Yes 
 
No Yes 
 
No Yes 
 
No Yes 
 
No Yes 
 
No 
Please add any additional comments on the back of this sheet  
 