         1  
 
 
 
 
Semester: Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days: None (100% online)  
Class Meeting Location: None (100% online)  
Instructor:  Dr. K. Doreen MacAulay  
Office Location:  Virtual ( MS Teams )  
Office Hours  for Dr. MacAulay:  Friday  from 8am to 12 pm  or by appointment  (please email to 
receive link for appointment) .  
Office Hours for Graduate Teaching Assistance  (GTA) : See Meet the  Instructor and GTA 
section  for office hour times and links.    
Phone Number:  813-974-4354  
Email:  macaulay1@usf.edu  
 
 
I. Welcome!  
I hope you are ready for a great semester of learning, interacting , and fun! Principles of 
Management is a survey course that I hope will introduce you to several  new and interesting 
topics that will help you now and throughout your career.  
 
I am excited to be working with you this semester and your team of GTAs feel the  same way. S o 
please do not hesitate to reach out to your TA or myself, if we can be of any assistance to you. 
You will be assigned a TA based on your last name , but please feel free to reach out to any of the 
team members should you need help.  We are here  to help you be successful in this course. To 
find out which GTA you are assigned to, please see the Meet the  Instructor and GTA  section.   
 
II. University Course Description  
Examines intrapersonal, interpersonal, group/team, organizational, and environmental (both 
stakeholder and societal) factors influencing the management task.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course.  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
This course will provide you with the foundations for understanding the role of management in 
an organization. This course will cover general areas such as planning, organizing, influencing, 
and controlling that are relevant for any industry. We will also review issues of management 
such as ethics, diversity, and social responsibility . 
 MAN3025   
Principles of Management  
80576, 021, 3 Cr hours  
Muma College of Business  
Information Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 1/24/2023  
 
 
2 V. How to Succeed in this Course  
Successful students use the following practical tips : 
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements . You can also have notifications of 
announcements sent to your USF email.  
2. Use the Modules tab  as your main page for know ing what is required for the course.  
3. Close down other programs and apps before you begin working on the class material.  
4. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi . 
Especially for tests. Wifi can be unreliable and not effective for test taking.  
5. Download and ensure you have HONORLOCK ready before you want to take the 
course tests. This wi ll help reduce any frustrations based on time constraints.  
6. If new to Canvas, read see the Innovative Education  Website for information.   
 
VI. Learning Outcomes  
Upon completion of this course students will: 
• Understand the basic theories, concepts and effective behavioral practices that form the 
foundation of modern management thought.  
• Have e xplore d how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, identity, cultu re rules 
and biases in relation to how they influence management of a workplace . 
• Be able to identify and describe major global issues that impact businesses and 
management of those businesses.  
• Have d emonstrate d the ability to apply key management concepts .  
 
VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
1) All assigned material on Canvas  
2) Management,  10th edition  © 2022  by Kinicki  
Connect  Access  ISBN:  9781266804502  
Student  Price  (if they opt-in): $61.76  
Please  see Canvas  Module  1 for book  information  (See Obtaining  the Book)  
 
VIII. Grading Scale  
Letter 
Grade  F D C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+ 
% 
earned  49 50-
59 60-69 70-
74 75-79 80-84 85-
89 90-
94 95-
97 98-100 
 Not 
Acceptable  Acceptable  Below 
Expectation  Mets 
Expectation  Above 
Expectation  Exceptional 
work  
 
   
 
3  
IX. Grade Categories and Weights  
Assignment  %  
Assignments: 2 Assignments * 5 points See canvas for more details.  10 
Syllabus Quiz: .5 point  0.5 1 Syllabus quiz is required for this course valued at .5 point.  
Personal Introduction: .5 point  0.5 
Reference and Research Quiz   2 
Chapter quizzes: 4 Quizzes (4 * 5 points)  
20 There will be 4 MC quizzes throughout the course. Each one will be on 
a specific chapters and lectures that is defined in the title of the quiz one 
(ie: Quiz 1 – Chapter 2 and 3). These are closed book but not proctored.  
Discussion Board – 4 * 1 points each  
You will be provided an article to read and asked to answer questions 
based on the article. There will be four options to participate in 
discussions. You will be graded on only two of them.  4 
McGraw Hill Connect – ISeeIt Assignments  (4*3)  12 
McGraw Hill Connect – Role Play Assignments ( 4 * 3 points)  12 
Knowledge Test (Chapters 1 -12; Uses Honorlock)  12 
Global Citizens Assignment -This will be a project that is due the last 
week of classes. This can be presented as a paper or presentation.  
24 GC Goal and Company Profile (4 points)  
GC Paper Draft (10 points)  
GC Paper Final (10 points)  
Meditation - Each week there will be meditation videos available for 
you to watch before you start your work for the week. This is a self -
report complete/incomplete task.  3 
TOTAL  100 
Bonus Marks  
(up to 2 percentage  points of bonus marks can be earned)  Up to 2  
 
 
X. Project Assignments  
For descriptions of projects and assignments, please see the modules tab of the course canvas site. 
The details for the assignment will be listed in the module in which the assignment is due. It will 
have all the details for you in th e module in which the project is assigned.  
  
 
4 It is important that you read through all the material in each of the modules to know what is 
expected of you each week. The MODULES tab is where you should be following along with the 
course.  
 
XI. Communication  
There are several ways that you will be able to  engage with your instructor, your TAs, and your 
classmates. Your instructor and TAs can be reached during their office hours that are posted on 
the canvas  site under Meet your Instructor and TAs. These office hours will be conducted via 
teams. Links will be provided under each of the TAs bios on the Meet your Instructor and TAs 
page. To set a meeting with Professor MacAulay, email her at macaulay1@usf.edu  and she will 
send you a link.  
 
For an additional resource, this course will also use Teams. We will have a Teams chat room that 
will be monitored by the TAs. This will be a place for us to interact with one another , ask general 
questions,  and post general announcements. If you do not fi nd your MAN3025 team in your 
Microsoft Teams, please contact your TA. It will go live on January 9th, 2023.  
 
XII. Course Environment  
 
Your Principles of Management team considers the diversity of its students to be a strength and 
an important component of a successful learning experience. As we prepare you to function at a 
level of excellence in the workplace, we need to ensure you embra ce the strengths of that a 
diverse work environment has to offer you and your organization.  
 
Additionally, the University of South Florida considers the diversity of its students, faculty, and 
staff to be a strength and critical to its educational mission. USF expects every member of the 
university community to contribute to an inclusive and respe ctful culture for all in its classrooms, 
work environments, and at campus events.  
 
Dimensions of diversity can include sex, race, age, national origin, ethnicity, gender identity and 
expression, intellectual and physical ability, sexual orientation, incom e, faith and non -faith 
perspectives, socio -economic class, political ideology, education, primary language, family 
status, military experience, cognitive style, and communication style. The individual intersection 
of these experiences and characteristics is valued in our community.  
 
The goal of our team and of the University if to help you be successful in a classroom where 
everyone feels safe and welcome.  
 
XIII. Grade Dissemination  
You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in  Canvas.  Grades will be posted at 8am 
on the Thursday after the due date except for the final GCA project.  
   
 
5  
XIV. Course Schedule * 
Module  Topics  Reading  Deliverable List  Due 
1 Course 
Information 
and Resources  Posted Module 1 Material  Syllabus Quiz  (JAN 13)  
Personal Introduction ; 
Reference and Research 
Quiz ; Meditation  JAN 13 &  
JAN 15  
2 Introduction to 
Management  Posted Module 2 Material 
and Chapters 1 -2 Meditation; Quiz 1  JAN 22  
3 Management 
Landscape  Posted Module 3 Material 
and Chapters 3 -4 Meditation; Assignment 1  JAN 29  
4 Strategic 
Management  Posted Module 4 Material 
and Chapters 5 -6 Meditation; Discussion 
Board ; Role Play 
Assignment  FEB 5  
5 Decision 
Making in 
Management  Posted Module 5 Material 
and Chapter 7  Meditation ; Role Play 
Assignment; ISeeIt 
Assignment  FEB 12  
6 Organizational 
Structure  Posted Module 6 Material 
and Chapters 8  Meditation ; GCA Part 1  FEB 19  
7 Org Culture 
and HR  Posted Module 7 Material 
and Chapters 9  Meditation ; Role Play 
Assignment  FEB 26  
8 Individual 
Differences  Posted Module 8 Material 
and Chapter 11  Meditation; Quiz 2; 
Discussion Board ; ISeeIt 
Assignment  MAR 5  
9 Motivation  Posted Module 9 Material 
and Chapter 12  Meditation;  GC Draft 
Report ; Role Play 
Assignment  MAR 12  
10 March Break – March 13 -19 
11 Groups and 
Teams  Posted Module 11 
Material and Chapter 13  2 Meditation;  Discussion 
Board ; Knowledge Test  MAR 26  
12 Power, 
Influence and 
Leadership  Posted Module 12   
Material and Chapter 14;  Meditation; Quiz 3; 
Discussion Board  APR 2  
13 Communication  Posted Module 13 
Material and Chapter 15  Meditation; Assignment 2; 
ISeeIt Assignment  APR 9  
14 Control  Posted Module 14 
Material and Chapter16  Meditation; ISeeIt 
Assignment ; Quiz 4  APR 16  
15 Creativity, 
Innnovation &  
Change  Posted Module 15 
Material and Chapter10  Meditation;  
Final Global Citizen 
Assignmen t APR 23  
* The Schedule is subject to revision . Announcements will be emailed through canvas.  
  
 
6 XV. Global Citizens Project  
MAN3025 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements 
of the Global Citizen Award upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or 
higher).  Even if you are not applying for the award, this project is part of the course. Please see 
Module 2 for more details. There are two options for this assignment. You can complete a report 
or a presentation. You are not asked to complete both  formats . An ov erview is provided in 
Module 1 and individual submission details are provided in the modules in which the 
submissions are due.   
 
Please note that you cannot submit work from a previous class to satisfy this requirement. If you 
are found submitting work th at has already been submitted for another course, you will receive 
zero for this assignment.  
 
XVI. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work:  
You will receive 75% for work passed in up to 24 hours late. You will receive 50% for work 
passed in after 24 hours. To receive an excused late submission, you  are to  provide the professor 
with documentation to verify extenuating circumstances (hospitaliza tion, death in the family , 
etc).  
 
Basis for Grades:  
Each module will have an outline of the requirements for that module. There will be no sample 
assignments provided as I want you to create your own work. Be creative.  
 
Incomplete Policy: Grades of "Inco mplete":  
An "I" grade indicates incomplete coursework and may be awarded to a student only when a 
small portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning 
a passing grade. For undergraduate students, this time limit  may not exceed two academic 
semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. 
For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not 
removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
XVII. Course Policies : Technology and Media   
 
Email : Class communications will happen through canvas email of the announcements section. 
Please be sure you are receiving your emails from canvas. If you email your TA or the instructor, 
you will receive a response within 24 (weekdays) - 48 hours (weekends). If  you have not 
received a message, please feel free to follow -up with the individual .  
 
Canvas : Canvas will be your main source of materials for this course. Please be sure to sign into 
the class canvas site. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this 
course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please view the followi ng videos or consult the 
Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or 
help@usf.edu . 
  
 
7 HONORLOCK : All students  are to review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the 
online  terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  
Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may elect  
to drop or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
 
Online  tests within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  
to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz.  Students  
understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that 
recordings  from  any private  residence  are to be done  with the permission  of any person  residing  
in the residence.   
 
To avoid  any concerns  in this regar d, students  can select  private  spaces  for the testing.  The 
University  library  and other  academic  sites at the University  offer  secure  private  settings  for 
recordings  and students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the 
recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.   
 
Students  are to ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  
all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.   
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they take all exams  using  a reliab le computer  
and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the 
proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  
Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  proctoring  
student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
XVIII.  Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of th ese website s (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make u se of an online system for students to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, 
and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation 
is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment  with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, 
you will be expected to submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is 
processed, as instructor I receive a r eport from turnitin.com that states if and how another 
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .   
 
8  
 
XIX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Tutoring Hub  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF undergraduates. Appointments 
are recommended, but not required. Fo r more information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the 
Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individu ally with you, at any point in the 
writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. 
For more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
   
 
9  
XX. Important Dates to Remember  
Drop/Add Deadline:                      August 26th , 2022  
Labor Day Holiday  (No Classes) :   September 5th, 2022  
Fall Graduation Application Deadline    September 19th , 2022  
Mid-term Grading Opens:            October 3rd, 2022  
Mid-term Grading Closes             October 18th, 2022    
Withdrawal Deadline:                  October 29th, 2022  
Veterans Day  (No Classes)     November 11th, 2022  
Thanksgiving Holiday (No Classes)    November 24 & 25, 2022  
Test Free Week:      November 26th - December 2nd, 2022   
Fall Classes End                   December 2nd, 2022  
Final Fall Exam Week (this course has not exam)  December 3rd – 8th, 2022  
Fall End of Term      December 8th, 2022   
 
XXI. Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF . These may be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
USF strongly urges all community members to get fully vaccinat ed. Vaccines are our most 
reliable means of preventing the spread of COVID -19. The vaccine is free, readily available, and 
all of USF’s faculty, staff, and students are of age to be eligible for the vaccine; therefore, if 
someone chooses not to be vaccinat ed, they are assuming significant risk, including isolation and 
quarantine. Vaccines are also the most reliable way to ensure that students do not face any 
disruption to their studies or social activities, and faculty and staff do not face disruption to th eir 
teaching, research, or university work.  
 
It is critically important that individuals who feel unwell stay home and contact Student Health 
Services or their primary care provider for medical advice.  
 
Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, a nd fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly 
knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF Regulation 
3.027 . 
 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events  
 
10 pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic g rievance” is a claim that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has 
violated published policies and procedures or  has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other student s. 
 
Disability Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least  five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS is to accompany this request. Please visit the Student 
Accessibility Services website  for more inform ation.  
 
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF Regulation 3.025 ) is defined as the a ct, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectfu l or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or 
well-being of self or other persons.  
 
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financi al difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance 
in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull ( feedabull@usf.edu  or 
their website ), or Student Outreach and Support ( socat@usf.edu  or their website ).  
 
Intellectual Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act (House Bill 233)  
Preliminary Guidance Document  
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which 
the student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a 
formal or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present 
information or teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recor ding class activities other 
than class lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (whether 
individually or part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, 
academic exercises involving stud ent participation, test or examination administrations, field 
trips, private conversations between students in the class or between a student and the faculty 
member is prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and 
class  attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to these requirements may constitute a violation of the USF Student 
Conduct Code .  
 
Religious Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs ( USF Policy 10 -045). The Unive rsity of South 
Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and  
 
11 examinations in view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or 
communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expec ted to attend classes and take 
examinations as determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to attend class or sit 
for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students 
are asked to review the cours e requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable 
conflicts, as excessive absences in a given term may prevent a student from completing the 
academic requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at 
the b eginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this Policy.  
 
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sex ual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes  including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help you without having to report your situation to the Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must 
report incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, 
and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an 
educator, he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about 
Title IX, a full li st of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, 
relationship violence or stalking visit: usf.edu/title -ix 
 
Statement of Academic Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be ne cessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and ALERTUSF  
messages for important general information ( USF Policy 6 -010). 
 