 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
MAN  6055 : Organizational Behavior  and Leadership  
School of In formation Sys tems and Management  
Muma College of Business, University of South Florida 
 
 
Semester: Summer  2023; C – Section (May 1 5 – July 2 1, 202 3)  
Class Meeting Location: Online  
Instructor: Prof. Terry A. Boyd  
Office Location: BSN 3516  
Office Hours:  By appointment , sch edule by email   
Email: boyd56@usf.edu   
 
 
 
 
 
I. Welcome Message 
Welcome  to Organizational Behavior and Leadership. This course will introduce you to 
concepts found  in the organizational behavior literature that will help you as you progress in 
your career. This course will help you to take the academic concepts and apply them to day to 
day situations. The course will be taught from the perspective that you are or will som eday be 
a leader in an organizations.  
 
 
II. Course Description 
An examination of the theory and practice of management, including the study  of goals and 
means, the functions of management, and the administrative process in general (USF 
Graduate Catalog). 
 
III. Course Overview  
 
 
IV. Learning Goals  
1.  Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of organizational     
behavior    
2.  Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of OB and leadership correctly in new 
situations  
3.  Analyze issues of OB and leadership using appropriate methods and  
4.  Create and evaluate solutions based on scientific knowledge and evidence.  
 
V. Course Objectives 
At the end of this course stud ents shou ld be able to: 
1. Demonstrate knowledge  of organizational behavior /leadership  processes that are unique 
to this field of study.  
2. Analyze when change is needed and target strateg ies for implementing  techniques  for 
change success . 
3. Demonstrate  knowledge of  the individual  and group methods of coping with and 
adapting to change . 
4. Recognize and understand  strategic steps in building success in an organizational 
structure  through methods of leadership . 
 
 
VI. Course Topics  
Include (but not limited to):  
Attitudes, culture, cognitions/decision -making,  ethics, leadership, motivation, empower ment  and 
influence, stress, teamwork, traits , change strategies and more.  
 
 
VII. Textbook 
Scandura , Terri A.  (2022) Essentials of Organizational Behavior : An Evidence -Based Approach  (3rd 
edition). Los An geles : Sage . ISBN: 978 1544396781 
 
 
VIII. Reading Assignments  
                 
Part  Chapter  
One 1  
Two  2, 4, and 5  
Three  6 & 8  
Four  10, 12, and 13  
Five 14 & 15  
 
 
 
IX. Basis for Final Grade 
 
Assessment Item  Points  
Participation /Blogs  20 
Quiz  (2): on Canvas  100 (50 each)  
Mid-term Exam: on Canvas  75 
Final Exam  100 
Total  295 
 
 
 
Grading Scale  
A 265 - 295 Superior Performance  
B 236 - 264 Above Average Performance  
C 206 - 235 Average Performance  
D 177 - 205 Below Average Performance  
F < 177 Failure  
 
 
 
X. Teaching, Learning Expectation  
It is my intention to help you in the learning process by providing guidance as you  engage this 
field of study. Intellectual growth is expected as you discover and test the relevance of new 
information. Your growth will be enhanced if you allow yourself to appreciate diversity of 
though t. It will be my responsibility to encourage innovation and logical reasoning as you 
calibrate concepts and theories with your method of making meaning. At anytime if you feel lost 
or uncertain, lean on me to help you regain your balance with the material.  I would like to remind you of your social responsibility to be respectful of your co horts and professor.  
 
Please use my USF email ( boyd56@usf.edu ) to communicate and setup appointments. When 
reaching out to me, allow 24 hours for a response. When  communicating, always provide me 
with an understanding of the class you are in; this will help me to quickly respond based on the 
subject matter (plus, I w ill not have to search for you within multiple classes). I am looking 
forward to leading you through  this educational experience.    
 
 
XI. Course Assessment Types 
 
 
Participation  (20%): Your active participation is vital to the learning process. 
Participation will include  participation in chat /blog  assignments .  
 
 
Quiz (30%): There will be 2 quizzes (15 points each) based on the classroom discussions  and 
reading  content to ensure you are aware of the main takeaways from the lectures/sessions . 
These quizzes will be administered on Ca nvas.  
 
Mid-term Exam  (20%) There will be a n exam to demonstrate and measure student learning at 
the mid -point of the course.  Mid-term will be administered on Canvas.  
 
Final Exam  (30%): There will be a final assessment in the form of a n exam .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XII. Course Policies on Grades 
 
Grades of Incomplete: 
The current university policy concerning incomp lete grades will be followed in this course. 
Incomp lete grades are given only in situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a 
stud ent from comp leting the course and the remaining work can be comp leted the nex t 
semester. Your instructor is the final autho rity on whether you qualify for an incomp lete. 
Incomp lete work must  be finished by the end of the subs equent semester or the “I” will 
autom atically be recorded as an “F” on your transcript. 
XIII. Course Policies on Student Expectations 
Disability Access: 
Stud ents in need of academic accommod ations for a disability m ay consu lt with Stud ents with 
Disabilities Services (http://sds.usf.edu/) to arrange appropriate accomm odations.  Stud ents are 
required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting any accommod ation . 
 
 
Religious Observances: 
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent form the online environm ent for more 
than 1 week due to a major religious observance must  provide notice of the date(s) to the 
instructor, in writing, by the second week of the course. 
 
Academic Conduct: 
Academic Integrity of Stud ents policies for USF are listed below (please be aware that policies for undergraduate and graduate stud ents differ). 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.027.pdf 
 
 
Disruption of the Academic Process 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.025.pdf 
 
Gender-Based Crimes: 
Educators must  report incidents of gender-based crimes including sexual assault, sexual 
harassment, stalking, dating violence and dom estic violence. If a stud ent discloses in class, in 
papers, or to an instructor, the instructor is required by law to report the disclosure. The Center 
for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention (813-974-5757 ) is a confidential resource where 
you can talk about  such situations and receive assistance in confidence. Additional confidential 
resources on campus  are: the Couns eling Center (813-974-2831 ) and Stud ent Health Services 
(813-974-2331 ). 
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures 
http://www. ugs.usf.edu/policy/Stud entAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf 
 
Emergency Procedures: 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for the USF campus  to susp end normal 
operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods  
that include but are not limited to the learning management system (Canvas), email and/or 
  alternative schedule. It is the respons ibility of the stud ent to mon itor their courses for specific      
  comm unication, and the main USF, College and department websites, emails and MoBll    
  messages for impo rtant general information. 
 
 
 
Netiquette Guidelines: 
 
General Comm unication Guidelines 
 
 
1. Act professionally in the way you comm unicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do on a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be 
const ructive when explaining your views about  points you may not agree 
with. 
 
 
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic background s, political and religious beliefs or other 
general differences. 
 
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an e mail or post ing a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thou ghtful. Avoid the use 
of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shout ing, and it is more difficult to read. 
 
4. Keep your comm unications focused and stay on  topic. Comp lete your ideas before changing the 
subject. By keeping the m essage on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for. 
 
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor  or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone  of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted. 
 
 Email Guidelines: 
 
1. Please allow 24 hours for a response  M-F or 48 hour  response  on weekends and holidays. If I am 
not able to get an answer to you within that timeframe, I will at least acknowledge your email. 
That said – if you do not hear from me within 24 hours/48 hours please feel free to contact me a 
second time. 
2. All emails to have the  course ID, Semester Offered as well as som ething to summ arize the 
content. Example: MAN6055 F2018 – Grade review or MAN6055 F2018 – Exam concern 
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues shou ld be directly comm unicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore any issues shou ld not be posted 
there. 
 
XIV. Help Resources 
 
Canvas Technical Support: Include information where stud ents can find technical suppo rt. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page in the hom epage of your canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa, or emailing help@usf.edu. 
 
XV. Covid -19 Procedures  
All students  must comply  with university  policies  and posted  signs regarding  COVID -19 mitigation  
measures,  including  wearing  face coverings  and maintaining  social  distancing  during  in-person  
classes .  Failure  to do so may result  in dismissal  from class,  referral  to the Office  of Student  
Conduct  and Ethical  Development,  and possible  removal  from campus.  
Additional  details  are available  on the University’s  Core Syllabus  Policy  Statements  
page:  https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
 
XVI. Class  Recording  
Classes  will be recorded  and streamed  online.  Student’s  voice and video will be included  in the 
class recording.  It is the student’s  responsibility  to make  sure the privacy  of their surroundings  
and background  is maintained.  
 
 
XVII. Online  Proctoring  
Quizzes  and examinations  will be conduct ed using online  proctoring  tools.  Keeping  the audio  and 
video (microphone  and camera)  on during  such exams  and quizzes  is a must.  If the student  is not 
willing  to use these,  the student  is asked  not to register  for this course.  Any student  may elect to 
drop or withdraw  from this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.  Online  exams  and 
quizzes  within  this course  may require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to 
have a webcam  (USB or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz. Students  
understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that 
recordings  from any private  residence  must be done with the permission  of any person  residing  in 
the residence.  To avoid any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the 
testing.  The University  library  and other academic  sites at the University  offer secure  private  
settings  for recordings,  and students  with concerns  may discuss  the location  of an appropriate  
space  for the recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must ensure  that any 
recordings  do not invade  any third-party privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for 
violations  of any third-party privacy  concerns.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior to taking  
the proctored  exam.  For additional  information  about  online  proctoring  you can visit the online  
proctoring  student  FAQ at http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -
services/online -proctoring.aspx  
 
 