   ISM 6328  
Information Security and IT Risk 
Management  
Credit Hours: 3  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Semester  : Spring  2023 
Class meetings  : This is an Online  asynchronous course  
Instructor  : Federico Giovannetti  
Contact  : fgiovannetti@usf.edu  
Office number  : N/A, please email me . 
Office   : N/A 
Office  Hours  : By appointment  – in MS Teams   
Teaching asst  : TBA 
TA office hours  : By appointment  – in MS Teams  
University Course Description:  
Introduction of frameworks to assess IT risk and implement IT general controls; development of 
technical skills to secure computer networks.  
Course Prerequisites:  
None.  
Readings and Resources:  
Textbook (required): Title: Fundamentals of Information Systems Security, Fourth  Edition, David Kim; 
Michael G. Solomon , Paperback: ISBN: 9781284251333 , eBook: ISBN: 9781284244571  
Supplementary readings  and resources : Will be provided on Canvas.  
Course Background, Purpose , and Objectives : 
Cyber -attacks cost the global economy $445 billion annually and affect a variety of domains such as 
healthcare, government, academia , and industry. Recent years have  seen an unfortunate and disruptive 
growth in the number  of cyber -attacks.  To stem this grand societal issue, there are increasing  calls for 
well-trained cybersecurity professionals , with an estimated 3.5 million cybersecurity job openings by 
2021 . Despite th is high demand, there is currently a severe shortage of qualified candidates. Specifically, 
individuals lack technical skills such as planning/implementing/upgrading/monitoring emerging 
technologies, incident response, security controls, and basic systems administration. Moreover, 
candidates often lack the non -technical skills of researching and reading new technologies, regulatory 
compliance, internal security policies, standards, and procedures. This hands -on, introductory , graduate -
level course, backwards engi neered wit h DHS/NSA key knowledge unit requirements for maintaining the 
Center for Academic Excellence  for Cyber Defense  (CAE -CD) at USF , aims to  alleviate these concerns and 
help students be prepared to become competitive candidates in the field by :  
1. Introducing  the importance of information security a nd related business concerns  
2. Providing key definitions and termin ology for information security  
 Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
2 3. Making  students aware of the major categories of information security threats  
4. Making  students aware of the commo n informat ion security controls  
5. Enabling  students to implement the basi c information security controls  
6. Introducing  students to the important legal provisions  regarding information security  
7. Making  students aware of the methodological implications for INFOSEC  arising from these legal 
provisions  
8. Providing  students with an understanding of the standard methodologies for complying with legal 
requi rements for IT general controls  
9. Providing  basic understanding of IT r isk management in organizations  
10. Developing valuable skills (e.g., critical thinking) currently in demand for cybersecurity professionals  
Upon completion of this course, students will have a strong enough foundation to pursue advanced 
studies (with additional work, of course!) to attain popular cybersecurity certifications such as Certified 
Ethical Hacker (CEH), Certified Information Security Manager (CISM), Security+, Certified Information 
Systems Security Professional (CISSP), and SANS GIAC Security Essentials (GSEC). Specifically, stud ents 
will:  
1. Demonstrate an understanding of security conce rns and issues in organizations  
2. Learn how to identify and characterize assets relevant to cyber security  
3. Have the ability to identify major categories of information security threats  
4. Have the abilit y to apply various kinds of controls to counter common threats  
5. Learn about important compliance requirem ents related to cybersecurity  
6. Have the ability to provide  solutions to mitigate IT risks  
Requirements:  
Technical:  Full-time access to a personal compute r (Mac or PC is fine) . We also assume that you have a 
technical background before entering this course (as per the requirements for the MS in Cybersecurity 
program). This includes basic systems administration, shell scripting, and knowledge about computer 
networking. The technical path is optional in this class for students that would like a hands -on 
experience. Students without these background areas  can choose the non -technical path, or otherwise  
are strongly recommended to first gain some experience in t hese areas, then take this course.  
Non -technical  (more important!) : Capability, aspiration, and positive attitude for learning. Strong work 
ethic. Interest in information security ; it’s a hands -on, contact sport!   
Course Workload Expectations:  
Any univers ity course requires a large amount of work outside of lecture. This c ourse is structu red 
around 8 weeks. Given this  condensed  time-frame, you should expect a heavier than normal workload. 
This is a fast paced course! We assume you will allocate an average of at least 10 – 15 hours per week 
outside of lecture for study,  quiz, and assignment work. It is your responsibility to manage your 
workload.  If you procrastinate, you may find that you do not have enough time, or th at a technology 
problem is prevent ing you from completing your submissions on time. Note that technology problems 
(such as computer or network failures) will not be accepted as acceptable excuses.   Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
3  
Course Schedule:  
Week  Topic  Readings  Assessments  Deadlines** 
1 Syllabus, I nformation Systems Security  Chapter   1 Quiz   1   (ch 1)
  Week  1 assignment
  
2 Internet of Things  
Malicious Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities  Chapter  2 
Chapter   3 Quiz   2  (ch 2) 
Quiz   3  (ch 3) Week 2  assignment  
3 Drivers of the Information Security  Business  
Access Controls  Chapter   4 
Chapter   5 Quiz   4  (ch 4) 
Quiz   5  (ch 5)
  Week 3  assignment  
4 Security Operations and Administration  
Auditing, Testing, Monitoring  Chapter   6 
Chapter   7 Quiz   6  (ch 6) 
Quiz   7  (ch 7)
  Week 4  assignment  
5 Risk, Response, and Recovery  
Cryptography  Chapter   8 
Chapter   9 Quiz   8  (ch 8) 
Quiz   9  (ch 9) Week 5  assignment  
6 Networks and Telecommunications  
Malicious Code and Activity  
Information Security Standards  
 Chapter   10 
Chapter   11 
Chapter 12  Quiz  10 (ch 10) 
Quiz  11 (ch 11)  
Quiz  12 (ch 12)  Week 6  assignment  
7 Information Security Training  
Information Security Professional 
Certifications  
US Compliance Laws  Chapter   13 
Chapter   14 
Chapter 15  Quiz 13  (ch 13)  
Quiz 14 (ch 14)  Week 7  assignment  
8 Course wrap -up (Please note that 
assignments f or this week will be due on  
Friday, not Sunday! This is due when the 8 -
week course ends).  None  None  Class Project  
 
Feed forward   
**All deliverables are due at the end of day (11:59 PM) on the submission date (usually Sunday).  
 
Grading:  
There are 100 points total in this class. Given the nature of the four core activities which comprise the 
final grade (detailed below), no extra credit/curves will be provided in this class.  Grades will not be 
rounded up (i.e., 86.9 is a B+, not an A -). The grading breakdown is as follows:  
Total 
points  Grade  Total 
points  Grade  Total 
points  Grade  Total%  Grade  
>=93   
>=90   
>=87   A+ 
A  
A-  >=83   
>=80   
>=77   B+  
B  
B-  >=70   
>=67   
>=63   C+  
C  
C-  >=60   
<=57   
<57  D+ 
D 
F  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
4 Four  activities make up the to tal grade: quizzes, assignments, design presentation, and feed -forward. 
The point breakdown for each is provided in the table below. The following sub -sections describe each 
component and summarize the rationale and intuition behi nd the assessment.  
Activity  Type  Individual % Value  
Quizzes  Individual  40% 
Assignments  Individual  44% 
Project  Individual  15% 
Feed -forward  Individual  1% 
Quizzes:  
There are no exams in the course . Such examinations are not necessarily realistic of what you will 
encounter in day -to-day “real world” working environments (short of professional certifications). 
Instead , there is a quiz for each chapter. These quizzes are an opportunity to check your kno wledge and 
understanding of each chapter . Security professionals are frequently required to work in a real -time 
fashion where they may not have the opportunity to look up answers to questions from their boss or co -
workers. You will often find yourself in m eetings in which time is of utmost importance . The review 
questions provided at the end of chapter and lecture will help you prepare for the quiz. Each quiz must  
be completed individually.   
Assignments:  
While the quizzes test your “on the spot” and “quick thinking ability” (both skills highly sought after by 
security recruiters!), assignments simulate the projects security professionals often engage in. My job is 
to facilitate your learning – I cannot treat you like an empty glass and just fill you up with knowledge. As 
such, the assignments  are more critical thinking and hands -on in nature . The emphasis is APPLYING  the 
core knowledge competencies attained in each chapter in meaningful (i.e., recent and relevant) 
situations. This can and will include the opportunity to apply the course content to areas of your interest 
and to your workplace environment.  
Please note that the quizzes and assignments are not searching through course content and explicit 
mentioning of every point  by an instructor (e.g., control + f). As a master’s level course, the assignments 
require independent thinking (careful thought, critical thinking) and some external research. For 
example, cert ain commands may take some self -experimentation and external r eading to fully 
understand and gain a deep understanding. This simulates what cybersecurity professionals must do on 
a daily basis – thus, this type of learning cannot be compromised in this class, nor others. Moreover, we 
have designed the assignment ques tions in a fashion that allows students to transfer their knowledge 
over to their workplace.   
Late Assignment Submission Policy: No late assignments will be accepted. No assignments will be 
dropped. All assignments must be submitted on Canvas by the due da te. These assignments can take 
time, please plan your work  accordingly.   
Course Hero / Chegg Policy: The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students ma y not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.   Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
5 turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as 
well as  an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. After the assignment 
is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s 
work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look  at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
Class Project  – Individual : 
A project description will be posted in Canvas near the midway point of the course. The learning 
objective of the assigned project will be to demonstrate the application of a cybersecurity concept 
based on the individual or group student interest . A detailed rubric  with instructions  will be prov ided 
midway through the course.  
Feed -forward : 
I take student learning extremely seriously. A feed -forward is review that looks forward, to provide two 
detailed suggestions that would have improved the class FOR YOU  that will improve the class for future 
semesters . The idea is adapted from the book “Outliers ” by Malcolm Gladwell, where t he basic idea is 
that feedbacks are backward looking, feed -forwards are forward looking.  The questions asked in this 
assignment are as follows:  
• Please describe one thing the instructor can do to improve the class experience for you. Please be as 
specific as possible and ma ke actionable recommendations.  
• Please describe the second thing the instructor can do in to improve the class experience for you. 
Please be as specific as possible and make actionable recommendations.  
The submission for this assignment will open in the las t week of the course. Please note that the 
feedback requested in this assignment (as well as in all assignments) is not an opportunity to “complain” 
about the course content (e.g., “assignments are too long” or “I could not copy and paste the answer 
from t he slides into the assignment”). Rather, it is an opportunity to provide constructive feedback 
regarding how the assignment and/or course can be improved such that it enhances your learning 
experience.  
Working Ahead of Schedule  and Steps to be Successful in this Course : 
Each lecture, assignment, and quiz will be posted a minimum of one week in advance of their respective 
due dates. If content opens earlier, students are encouraged to work ahead. However, to maintain the 
integrity of the group learning envi ronment, grades will be provided after the due date. S tudents are 
encouraged to stay in consistent contact with the instructor regarding their progress. To be successful in 
this course, students are suggested to follow the below strategy (in order) for eac h week.  
1. Carefully read each chapter  in the textbook  
2. Converse with instructor and/or TAs regarding course content if you have any questions  
3. After doing the above three, go over the review questions and take the quiz (independently!)  
a. You are responsible for ALL content in chapter and lecture – they will be tested accordingly!!!  
i. Simulates the type of learning a cybersecurity professional must engage in  
4. Carefully work on assignment content following ALL directions  
Office Hours and Communications:  
Please email me  for any course questions.  Selected course questions may be redirected to the course 
TA(s). For all emails, please include ISM 6328  in your subject line. This will enable me to sift through  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
6 our emails more quickly. Under no rmal circ umstances, we will respond within 24 hours of your post 
Monday thro ugh Friday and 48 hours on Saturday and Sunday. If you have a question regarding your 
personal performance in the course, please  email me directly  using the ad dress a bove. I will provide 
feed back on course work that needs to be manually graded (e. g., essay  papers, projec ts) with in 72 hours 
of the submission due date . You will be able to  see results for automatically  graded course work (online 
quizzes and exams) after  the specif ied dea dline.  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the e nd of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued. I take evaluations and feedback extremely seriously. Please also feel free to 
reach out to me during the sem ester if you have any feedback – it is better if I know sooner rather than 
later!  Students will have an opportunity to provide feedback at the end of each assignment. The feed -
forward assignment is also an opportunity to provide detailed feedback to the in structor.  
University Mandated Course Policies:  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continui ty, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -
policy -statements.aspx   
Course FAQ:  
How to communicat e with me?  
You can either send me an email directly or through Canvas . When emailing directly or through 
Canvas, please write the appropriate subject and include your name at the bottom of the email. The 
emails should be composed professionally, and the l anguage should be courteous and respectful.  
 How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted 
through Canvas.  
3. Please do not re ply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, 
unless your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get 
my email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous 
text from that email, if your email pertains to something else.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should arrive in your inbox. If you 
send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send me an email 
directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to reply to your emails 
within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasion ally emails do tend to go to my Junk Mail folder so if you have not received my response  Syllabus: ISM 6328 – Information Security and IT Risk Management  
7 within 24 hours, please resend your email directly . I will provide feedback on your assignments 
through Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and 
announcements. I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and 
expectations and have your questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a 
more productive semester. Please read this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me 
questio ns.  
• Complete the reading assignments and class pre -work:   You will get a lot more out of this 
class if you complete the assigned readings and do the pre -work. In my experience, students 
who don't complete the reading either never complete it or try to cra m it all in just before the 
exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, unsatisfactory grades are due to procrastination 
than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete the work for 
this class.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing  assignments:   You cannot pass the course without doing 
at least most of the assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you 
get behind, you will find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Do not cheat:  Cheating will not be tolerated. You wil l lose the entire grade for the assignment 
and second chances will not be given. Student integrity is a serious matter.  
• A simple formula:  submit quality work, on time.  
 