Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 1 of 13 
  
 
 
 
 
Semester:   Spring , 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:   Online  
Class Meeting Time:   Online  
Class Meeting Location:  Online  
Instructor:    Dr. Bhuvan UNHELKAR  
Office Location:    C225, College of Business, Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
Office Hours:     Online  
Phone : (941) 359 -4654   [MS Teams & Canvas messaging preferred ] 
Email:     bunhelkar@usf.edu   
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
 
Welcome to the Course: Project Management . This course is designed to help you appreciate, 
understand and apply contemporary Project Management techniques with substantial emphasis on 
Agility. This course has substantial  practical aspect that is drawn from  my consulting and training 
experience in  real-life situations. M y wish for you all is that you derive maximum practical value 
from this course and that you are  able to apply the concepts discussed in this course in  in practice .  
 
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
 
This course has no set pre -requisites. Stud ents are, however, expected to have basic 
understanding of how projects happen in the industry. This course is focused entirely on 
managing projects and doe s NOT involve any programming (coding). Appreciation of 
programming concepts will obviously help you in developing better understanding of the 
concepts of project management and their proper application in practice. You will also realize 
through this course that it is not necessary for all projects to be software only. Many skills you 
learn in this cours e will be applicable to any type of project. An important soft -skill you will 
need, however, is ability to collaborate with fellow students in a Team. This is a vital skill  for you 
to develop and I am paying particular emphasis on it. Therefore, it is vital that you develop your 
abilities as a team player - especially as we learn to collaborate in an ONLINE  Team project.  
 
III. Course Purpose   
 Course ISM  4314: 
Project Management  
3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 2/6/2023  
 
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 2 of 13 
 This course provides students  with a practical understanding of Project Management (PM) with 
particular focus on its application in projects in organizations. There are hardly any modern -day 
projects that do not use Agile . Therefore , this course is heavily focused on helping you 
understand Agile Project Management (APM). Starting with the definition of what comprises 
Agile, this course creates a solid foundation for students to apply the Agile Manifesto in practice 
through a Composite Approach to agile methods. ‘Scrum’ is introduced as a pop ular Agile project 
management approach. While Scrum is biased towards software development projects, once you 
understand the principles and practices of Scrum you will  be able to apply them to any type of 
project.  
This courses further explores the important role of leadership together with its psycho -social 
aspects in enabling successful Agile adoption in the organization.  
Finally, I also reference current popular certifications available outside of this course  (e.g. 
Professional Scrum Master – PSM; and Scaled Agile Framework for the Enterprise SAFe) , in the 
industry that are increasingly valued by employers.  
 
 
IV. How to Succeed in this Course  
 
Successful students should will these  tips as they start their  online study:  
 
1. Check Canvas and emails  for announcements . While most announcements will be posted on 
Canvas, please do keep an eye for any additional information that is sent to you. Please make a 
habit to check for announcements on a daily basis.  
2. Close d own other programs and apps before you begin your class as that will prevent any 
distraction including running out of memory space etc.  
3. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on WiFi  
4. When possible, use a laptop rather than  a smart phone for easier reading and listening to 
materials  
5. Read the instruction page for the Discussion questions, Team collaborations, and Quizzes ; Each 
instruction page is carefully put together and skipping over the instructions may mean 
incomplete wo rk and loss of points – which I am keen to avoid for you.  
6. Work in Team Projects  in a collaborative manner. ONLINE collaboration requires 
discipline and responsibility towards the entire team . This is a CRUCIAL learning 
objective and learning experience of this course.  
7. Submit ALL assignments in time and NOT wait for any reminders . Please note that this 
syllabus forms an official part of your documentation and that these instructions have clar ified 
the need to submit assignments ON TIME.  
8. Attempt ALL assignments  – please do NOT leave any assignments un -attempted even though 
you may be doing very well in the ones you have already attempted. Making an honest attempt 
at all assignments and achievi ng a minimum score (as specified in each assignment) is 
absolutely crucial for success in this course.  
9. For any delays in submission  that are entirely beyond your control , please reach out to your 
professor promptly and explain the reasons (except in medic al emergencies where you simply 
can’t reach out) . A documented proof of any reasons will be required.  
10. Maintain high -level of honesty and ethical behavior throughout the course . This is absolutely 
crucial for this online course as the University has and en forces strict policies for plagiarism 
etc.  
11. Maintain total respect towards your Professor / Instructor and your fellow students . This 
is another critical requirement of this course. No disrespect towards any of your fellow 
students and your professors is expected.  
12. If new to Canvas, read this guide   
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 3 of 13 
  
 
V. Student Learning Outcomes  
 
At the completion of this course, students will be able to:   
 
1. Recognize Project Management basics including Risks, Scope, Time, Budget , Quality  and Change  
management  
2. Recognize the importance of Agility in projects and organizational culture  
3. Demonstrate the use of Agile techniques used in practical projects including  requirements 
modeling, project estimations, prioritization, tracking and quality  
4. Undertake Collaborative Iteration planning for Agile projects  in a Team (group) setting  
5. Demonstrate the role of leadership in Agile adoption in organizations  
6. Undertake team work and communicate effectively and REGULARLY in a team environment to 
enable delivery of project outputs  
 
 
VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
 
Required  (Note: This text book is made FREELY available by USF’s Textbook Adoption Program (TAP). 
Please see Canvas course for details on how to download this material for your study :  
 
Unhelkar , B., (2013), The Art of Agile Practice: A Composite Approach for Projects and Organizations, 
CRC Press, (Taylor and Francis Group /an Auerbach Book), Boca Raton, FL, USA . Authored ISBN 
9781439851180, Foreword Steve Blais, USA  
 
VII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materia ls 
 
- Fowler, M., UML distilled:3rd Edition Addison -Wesley  
- Unhelkar , B., (2018), Software Engineering with UML, CRC Press, (Taylor and Francis 
Group /an Auerbach Book), Boca Raton, FL, USA . Foreword Scott Ambler. ISBN 978 -1-
138-29743 -2 
- Unhelkar , B., (2005), “Verification and Validation for Quality of UML Models”, John Wiley 
and Sons , (Wiley Interscience), July, 2005; Clothbound, Pages 290+. ISBN: 0471727830 
(Foreword by Prof. Brian Henderson -Sellers, UTS, Sydney, Australia)  
- Unhelkar , B., (2003), “Process Quality Assurance for UML -based Projects” Pearson Education 
(Addison -Wesley ), Boston, 2003; (394 Pages + CD. Foreword by Vicki P. Rainey, Raytheon 
Corporation, USA). ISBN 9 780201 -758214  
 
Other materials (including Youtube/Ted talk videos etc.) will be shared in class.  
 
 
VIII. PERFORMANCE  EVALUATION AND GRADING:  
 
Graded Items  Percent of Final Grade   
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 4 of 13 
 Discussion Questions  20% (Individual)  
Team Project Report  20%  (Group Grade)  
Team Project Presentation  10% (Group Grade)  
Team Project Collaboration  10% (Individual)  
Mid-term Quiz  20% (Individual)  
Final Quiz  20% (Individual)  
 ------  
 100%  
 
Student performance is evaluated based their regularity in posting to the discussion questions; Please note  that it 
is important to make substantial posts in order to justify and demonstrate your understand of the topic discussed 
in that particular week. Performance is further evaluated through ass essment tasks that include Team Projects  
(where your ability to work together in a Team is crucial ) and quizzes  (that test out your ability to understand 
the concepts discussed independent of the team) .  
 
Please note that late assignments will be accepted only with fully justified and documented reasons as per 
university guidelines.  Also, please note, late assignments will be penalized  in order to maintain equitability 
with fellow students.  
 
A late submission of Assignment/quiz will not be considered valid and all points forfeited if: (a) Student has 
been remin ded once  and yet no action is taken by the student ; (b) Assignment solution has been discussed in the 
class, (c) Correct answers to the assignment / quiz have been provided to the class.  
 
The relative weights for each of these components in determining th e final grade are as follows (please also 
note the key evaluation rubric description,  next to the percentages):  
 
Discussion Questions  and online participation 20% ( Critical Thinking, Communication) . There are 4 
detailed D iscussion Questions – two before the mid -term break and two after  the break . These are essay 
style posts made by you, the students , as you apply your critical thinking skills in discuss ing and reflect ing 
on the issues and challenges of project management. What is learnt in th e class modules AND what is 
explored/researched by students is put together  in making these discussion posts.  These discussion 
question s are made available corresponding to the  relevant topic/s that has been discussed in the class. 
Students read  the question carefully, think, reflect, research and post an  answer. After posting your 
answer , you will be able to see the posts made by your fellow students. Once you see the posts from fellow 
students , sele ct a couple, read them carefully and offer a critique . This posting and counter -posting of 
discussions  is an important learning mechanism. Through participating in these discussion questions 
students are able to consolidate their knowledge , observe variati ons in thinking and interpret ation by fellow 
students and how they  may have a unique viewpoint that is not necessarily in agreement with what the 
other students are thinking on the. Written c ommunications skills are further sharpened especially in an 
onlin e format through this exercise. Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in 
this assignment in order to pass this course. Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. 
Maintaining UTMOST courtesy towards yo ur fellow students and your professor as you enter these 
discussions is also a vital requirement of this assignment. Please note that this is an individual assignment 
and each student is graded based on her/his work. Should there be doubt on the “originali ty” of the 
post, the instructor reserves the right to ask the student to submit a Turnitin report.  
 
Team Project  30% (Critical Thinking, Team Work, Communication ; Report 20% + Presentation 10% ) – 
The team project forms an absolutely critical part of evaluation  in this course. Students are put together 
in a team (typically 5 students) and provided with a case study problem statement. Students apply the 
knowledge they have learnt to work through the case study and  put together the deliverables in the fo rm of 
a Report  (20%) and a Presentation (10%)  at the end of the course.  
 
For a Team of 5 students, the expected size of the report, in Word (12 font, 1.5 spacing) is approximately 
30+ pages. These number of pages provide a rough idea of the length of the report – you may go a little bit 
over it if necessary. Accompanying your report will be a professional PPTx presentation deck  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 5 of 13 
 (approximately 25 slides) that pitches your project to a typical Steering Committee or  Board of a large 
organization (CEO/CIO pane l). Your report and presentation deck explains your understanding of how you 
applied the project management practices  you studied in the class to a ‘near real life ’ case study (that is 
provided). You must make sure that your report has NO THEORY ( for examp le, please don’t start with 
What is Project Management? ). This is so because no CxO or senior decision -making panel in an 
organization wants to hear any theory . You, as a team, need to develop a well -grounded presentation that 
has both relevance  and depth  in practice . Your presentation should have a  voice -over that records and plays 
your voice over each of the slides in your deck.  Please further ensure that the submission of the slide deck 
is professional,  free from basic English errors, spelling mistakes, formatting errors etc. Please note that you 
are not required to make a live/online presentation to me of this project. ALL Team members are required 
to work on the Report and ALL Team members are required to participate in the presentation.  
 
Since this is an online course, it’s vital that students start collaborating with each other online as soon as 
they start the study.  Reaching out to fellow students in the team and responding to their messages is integral 
to a good, collaborative online work environment. This online collaboration is a mandatory requirement of 
this course as it will require students to not only use thei r critical thinking skills but also learn, develop and 
apply their ability to communicate online and work in an online team environment.  Students need to note 
that it is important to score at least 40% points in this Team Project assignment in order to pas s this course. 
Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Please note further that this is a TEAM 
assignment and each student is graded based on the ENTIRE TEAM’s work.  
 
Team Project Collaboration  10% (Team Work, Communication) – A crucial aspect of Team Project 
Collaboration is your ability to reach out to fellow students in your team, collaborate with them (electronic 
media is fine) . Your mutual collaboration on the project topic, develop ment of  a project plan, identif ication 
of the risks and “execut ion” of the project  gets regularly reported in this exercise . There are 2 check -points 
for the Team Project collaboration update that appear in Discussion format in the course. Each of these 
check -points require you to collaborate with you r team members and then report on how your interactions  
and your contributions to the Team Project.  Agility in Project Management includes the principles of 
collaboration, communication and transparency. When you post your contribution  in the Team Project for 
everyone to see, you are practicing all these aforementioned skills.  Additionally, you are demonstrating 
your trustworthiness and honesty – crucial Agile principles – in making th ese posts. Students need to note 
that it is important to score at least 4 0% points in this assignment in order to pass this course. Not 
submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Please also note that this is an individual 
assignment and each student is graded based on her/his effort to bring the TEAM together, facilitate and 
respond to collaboration efforts and how the student contributes to the project. Although you are updating 
the Team Col laboration, this is your individual effort component of the Team Project.  
 
2 Quizzes  (Mid -term & Final) 40% (Critical Thinking)  – These two quizzes are primarily multiple -choice 
online quizzes which are based on the material covered in the Modules. Quizze s may be proctored using 
Honorlock or a similar tool. Students apply critical thinking skills to the questions being asked in the quiz 
and, thereby, validate as well as consolidate their knowledge of Project Management with Agility.  Quizzes 
are drawn from a pool of questions – therefore questions may change for each student in each attempt of 
the quiz.  Students need to note that it is important to score at least 40% points in this assignment in order to 
pass this course. Not submitting this assignment is not acceptable in this course. Please note that this is an 
individual assignment and each student is graded based on her/his work.  
 
Total  100%  
 
A grade will be determined based on the total of possible points earned, as follows:  
 
A 90-100; B 80 -89; C 70 -79; D 60 -69; F 0 -59.  
 
Further granularity of the grades with + and – will be part of the final grade  and will be based on the 
Professors underst anding of how well the student has achieved the learning objectives.  
  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 6 of 13 
  
Important Note: This course requires you to attempt ALL assessments listed above (Discussion 
questions, Team Collaboration updates , Team Project and Quizzes). Leaving any of these assessment 
items un -attempted will mean an “I” for Incomplete grade. For example, sometimes, a student has 
excellent points in some assessment tasks and that he/she will proceed with  an assumption that a  “0” 
point score for a quiz or team project  is okay because overall points are good . This is not an acceptable 
situation in this course. All assessment items MUST be attempted in all honesty by the students  with a 
minimum of 40% points .  
Important Note#2: Lat e submissions – especially submissions made after a reminder - WILL incur a 
penalty.  
 
IX. Course Schedule  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
(Please note: The DATES corresponding to the Weekly Modules are available on CANVAS – under Schedule ) 
 
   
 
Please note this is a tentative schedule – some changes will most likely occur as we progress into the 
semester  as the subject matter gets expanded and explained. The quizzes can also shift either way by 
a week or so  depending on the semester . Precise DATES for ass essment tasks are accurately provided 
on CANVAS . Each week also has a Discussion Question or a Team Project Collaboration update. 
Posting to these assessment tasks is mandatory . Regular courtesy reminders ar e provided on 
CANVAS as also occasional announcements. It is the responsibility of the student to check these 
announcements.  
 
 
 
 
(Please note: The DATES corresponding to the Weekly Modules are available on CANVAS – under 
Schedule ) 
 
 
Week   Topic and Sub-topic  Points (%)  
 
 
Week 0   Preparation; Review course outlines and syllabus on Canvas.   
Week 1  Module 1  Introduction to  Project Management;  
SDLC, Planned Process Lifecycles and Agile (Pages 56 – 59; Agile Manifesto   
Agile Team Formation   
Week 2  Module  2  Agile Elements in I mplementation (Pages 170 – 176) : Roles, Ceremonies, U ser 
Stories & Daily Standups   
Agile Challenges in Practice (Pages 71 – 87)  
Week 3  Module  3  Project Management & Risks; Project Management Body of Knowledge; 
Project Scope;  
Discussion Post -1 of 4   
Week 4  Module  4  Time & Cost Management (Traditional Project Management)  
Scrum in Detail (Pages 47 – 49) 
Lean (Pages 51 – 52) 
Kaizen (Pages 53 – 54)   
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 7 of 13 
 SAFe; DAD;  
Week 5  Module  5  CAMS Iteration Planning; Agile - SAFe, Lean, Kaizen;  
Three parts of an Agile Iteration (Page 122) – formation of a Wall  
Agile Job aid 7 - Iteration (Sprint) Planning  
Agile job aid 8 – Visible charting  
Discussion Post -2 of 4 
Team Collaboration – 1 of 2   
Week 6   Guest Lecture/s from Industry Professionals. Watching and studying 
recommended external material (e.g. Ted Talks) on Project Management.   
Week 7   MID_TERM QUIZ  (Covers Week s 1 through 6 – including the Guest 
Lecture/s ) 20% 
Week 8  Module  6 CAMS – Repository of Agile Practices   
Week 9  Module  7 Backlog, Showcas ing & Retrospective  
Discussion Post -3 of 4  
Week 10  Module  8 CAMS : Leadership in Project Management (Pages 269 – 293)  
  
Week 11  Module  9 Quality, Testing; Agile Adoption and Change Management  
Discussion Post -4 of 4  
Week 12  Module  
10 Scrum Guide Detailed study (keeping PSM -I in mind)  
Team Collaboration – 2 of 2  
Week 13   Guest Lecture/s from Industry Professionals. Watching and studying 
recommended external material (e.g. Ted Talks) on Project 
Management.   
Week 14   Consolidation – Self study. No new material presented.   
Week 15   Team Project Case study (FINAL)  – submis sion  
(Report + PPTx with Voiceover)  30% 
Week 16  Week  of 
Finals  END -TERM FINAL QUIZ  (Covers Week 8 onwards till the end of term)  
 20% 
    
  Team Project – Collaboration  
(How well you collaborated with fellow students/Team members)  10%  
All weeks   Weekly Discussion on Agile Practices (Online)  20% 
Please note this is a tentative schedule – some changes will most likely occur as we progress into the 
semester  
 
 
 
X. Standard University Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XI. Covid -19 Procedures  
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing   
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 8 of 13 
 during in -person classes . Failure to do so may result in dismissal from class, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct an d Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
 
Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.e du/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campuses is our top 
priority. In response to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the USF community will be 
working together to support  compliance with recommended health and safety standards 
to optimize the learning experience while minimizing health risks.  The Conduct 
Expectations for all members of the community may be accessed at  Conduct  Expected  to 
Support  USF Health  and Safety  Standards  with details provided below:  
Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the safest 
possible non -disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic  Disruption  Regulation  which provides for an immediate r emoval or 
restriction from a classroom setting with academic sanctions and/or  
(2) Student  Conduct  Regulation  to address conduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as outlined below:  
1. Complete  daily  screening  as requested.  Anyone experiencing one or more COVID -19 
symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their 
residence hall room and should contact a medical provider immediately and follow 
their guidance. Please inform your instructor prior to the beginning class if your 
screening indicates the need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear  face  coverings.  All members of the USF community are required to wear face 
coverings w hile in classrooms or any other shared space, including specified public or 
common -use areas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this 
link on  How  To Make  A Face  Mask . If you have to use a disposable face mask, please 
discard it in a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
3. Maintain  social  distancing.  All students, faculty, staff and guests are required to 
main tain a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained in all 
indoor and outdoor spaces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet 
(about 2 arms’ length) from other people, do not gather in groups, stay out of 
crowded places  and avoid mass gatherings. See the CDC for information on  Social  
Distancing . Please sit in only designated areas in class and do not move cha irs or 
desks in classrooms or common spaces.  
4. Practice  good  hand  hygiene.  Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water 
for at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal hand sanitizers containing 
at least 60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations are available throughout the campus. If 
you see one, use it! See the CDC recommendations on  Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect  your  classroom  space.  Students and faculty are responsible for disinfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each 
class. This includes desk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 9 of 13 
 supplies will be provided. If paper towels are us ed to disinfect, they must be 
discarded in a trash receptable immediately after use.  
   
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 10 of 13 
  
GRADING, EVALUATION AND ATTENDANCE POLICIES :  
 
A. Per USF policy, you receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s drop/withdraw 
date. 
B. Specifically state the value of and the manner in which each assignment in the syllabus will be evaluated or 
graded. Periodic reports on project progress are a contributing factor to the final grad e. 
C. The course grade includes an assessment on how well you have demonstrated the five learning outcomes 
listed above. We will use the straight A,B,C,D and F system, point system.  
D. This course does not require any class attendance. However, periodic updates on project progress, issues 
encountered, hurdles, etc. will be communicated – and, in rare cases, a face -to-face meeting organized 
by the faculty in charge.  
E. The notes, videos, quizzes etc. provided for your study in this class is intellectual property of the 
faculty. Students are NOT permitted to post the study material and quizzes anywhere online on the 
internet.   
 
XII. Campus Free Expression:  
 
Discussion questions and Team project collaboration updates in this course are objective 
expressions of the students. Counter -comments/posts should be made such that they are NOT 
found to be  uncomfortable, unwelcome, disagreeable, or offensive.  
Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual Freedom Act” can be found online.  
 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. 
Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not 
as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is 
supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide 
that certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked 
to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. 
Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIII. Make -up Exams Policy:   
 
NO make -up exams are offered. However, i f a student cannot be present for the quiz due to an an 
extreme emergency (such as an accident or loss in family), a make -up exam may be considered. 
Final grade for the exam will be scaled down by 30% and the exam  will be administered at the 
convenience of the instructor.  
 
USF System Policies  
 
Policies are available in the USF Catalog  and at regulationspolicies.usf.edu .  
 
  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 11 of 13 
 A. Academic Dishonesty : The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, 
projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavio r. Please review  the USF System Regulation USF3.027 
Academic Integrity of Students  and the USF System Reg ulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct . 
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning process.  
Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF (SM)  to suspend 
normal  operations.  During this time, USF (SM)  may opt to continue delivery of instruction through 
methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools , email 
messaging , and/or an alternate schedule. It  is the responsibility of the student to monitor Canvas for 
each of their class es for course specific communication, as well as  the USF (SM)  website, their student 
email  account , and MoBull  messages for important ge neral information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 
992-4231 is updated with pre -recorded information during an emergency.  See the Campus Police 
Website  for further information.  
 
D. Accessibility  Accommodation : Students are responsible for registering with the Office of Students 
Accessibility Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. Reasonable notice must 
be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It i s the 
responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the official Memo of 
Accommodation.  Contact Informati on: Students Accessibility Services  Coordinator, 941 -359-4714, 
disabili tyservices@sar.usf.edu , http:// USF (SM) .edu/disability -services/   
   
E. Fire Alarm Instructions : At the beginning of each semester please note the emergency exit maps 
posted in each classroom.  These sig ns are marked with the primary evacuation route (red) and 
secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency 
Evacuation Procedures . 
 
F. Religious Observances : USF (SM)  recognizes the right of students and faculty to observe major 
religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major 
religious observance must pr ovide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week 
of classes.  Instructors canceling class for a religious observance should have this stated in the syllabus 
with an appropriate alternative assignment.  
 
G. Protection  of Students  Against Discrimination  and Harassment: 
1. Sexual Misconduct/S exual Harassment Reporting: USF (SM)  is committed to providing 
an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence 
(USF System Policy 0-004). 
2. Other  Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USF (SM)  also is committed to 
providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, 
color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, 
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 
0-007). 
 
 
H. Web Portal Information:  Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e-mail account.  
Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that address.  The 
web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu.  
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS : 
 
A. Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarian s, learning support faculty, tutors, and  technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to contact  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 12 of 13 
 their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or regularly use t he 
tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services  (http://www. USF 
(SM) .edu/academics/academic -resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which ar e provided at 
no cost to students.   
 
B. Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can help  
develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, practice 
for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information sessions.  Access these resources 
or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.USF.edu/career -services . 
 
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:   
In this course,  turnitin.com  MAY be utilized . Turnitin  is an automated system which 
instructors may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
electronic format. Af ter the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report 
from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the 
assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.t urnitin.com . 
Assessments are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class  (but where 
resubmissions are required, an extra day will be allowed) .  
 
 
XIV. Learning Support : Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk 
about incidents of  discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, 
gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship violence. Call 
941-487-4254  
 
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of 
discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relati onship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to 
report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of 
Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO),  unless you request that they make a report. 
 
Please  be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators  must 
report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based crimes,  
 
Syllabus _ISM_4314_ Project Mgmt _2023_ Spring _Unhelkar .Docx  Page 13 of 13 
 sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/rela tionship violence. If a student d iscloses any of these situations 
in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally , he or she is  required to report it to OSSR  or DIEO  
for investigation. Students who are victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment 
are encouraged to report it to either OSSR or D I E O . The Deputy Coordinator for USF (SM)  is 
Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Students Accessibility Services & Student Advocacy, 941 -359-4714 or 
adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu . 
 
Campus Resources: 
Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941-487-4254  
Victim Advocate (24/7) 941-504-8599  
 
List of off-campus resources: 
HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805  
Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota:  941-365-1976 
Centerstone:  941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059  
 
Victim Advocate  
A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance leave a 
message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon as possible. 
The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and partner 
violence.  
 
 
 
XV. Important Dates to Remember  
 
All the dates related to the course, including and especially the assignments are poste d on 
Canvas. Please to note that the schedule appearing in this document and the dates placed 
on Canvas are tentative . While every attempt is made to hold on to the initial dates 
posted, they CAN be changed at the discretion of the professor.  In terms of t he overall 
University dates, please b e sure to get the newest dates from the Registrar: 
https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
 
End of Syllabus  
 