 
 
         1  
 
 
Instructor:  Arjun Kadian  E-Mail:  arjunkadian@usf.edu  
Term:  Spring 202 3 Dates:  1/10/23-5/4/23 
Delivery 
Method:  In Class  
(Sessions will be recorded)  Location:  CIS 2084  
Virtual Office 
Hours:  Meeting Times: 4:30 PM - 5:30 PM on Fridays  
 
Technology Used (MS Teams)  
 
MS teams link:  
 
Click here to join the meeting  
Meeting ID: 259 872 508 23   
Passcode: BQgiHD  
Download Teams  | Join on the web  
Learn Mor e | Meeting options  
 
In Class  
Sessions:  Meeting Times: Tuesdays  and Thursdays  from 12:30 PM to 1:45 PM  in CIS 
2084 . MS Teams will be used for recording sessions .  
 
Technology Used (MS Teams)  
 
MS teams link:  
 
Click here to join the meeting  
Meeting ID: 295 507 740 354   
Passcode: o7GGsV  
Download Teams  | Join on the web  
Learn Mo re | Meeting options  
 
 
 Course Purpose  
The exchange of information between computer applications is called Business Data 
Communications (DataComm for short). Datacomm technologies provide the underlying 
plumbing that enable computer applications to access resources on remote computers. Course Prefix Number Course Title  
CRN, Section #, Credit Hours  
College Name , Department Name  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
ISM4220  Spring  2023  
Business Data Communications   
Credit Hours  3 
Muma College of Business , School of Information 
Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 2 The prim ary goal of this course is to answer the question “How does the IT infrastructure 
work?”. A big part of it is, “how do computers talk to each other?  
The course is designed for students in all majors who are interested in computer 
networking. The course wil l focus on concepts in business data communications that are 
likely to stand the test of time. Upon completion of the course, students will have the 
foundation to evaluate and utilize most current data communication technologies.  
 
 Required Course Materials   
Required Text:  
Business Data Communications and IT Infrastructures (3rd Edition), Manish Agrawal and 
Clinton Daniel, eISBN: 978 -1-943153 -78-7, Paperback ISBN: 978 -1-943153 -79-4, 
https://www.prospectpressvt.com/textbooks/Agrawal -Data -Comm -3-0 
    
 Grading Scale   
 
Letter Grade  Percent  
A+ 98 -100%  
A 92 - 97%  
A- 90 - 91%  
B+ 88 - 89%  
B 82 - 87%  
B- 80 - 81%  
C+ 78 - 79%  
C 72 - 77%  
C- 70 - 71%  
D+ 68 - 69%  
D 62 - 67%  
D- 60 - 61%  
F < 60  
 
 Grade Categories and Weights  
Your grade in the course will be based on quizzes , assignments, and a design presentation. 
The weights  of the course elements and grading criteria are as follows:  
 
 
 Homework Quizzes, Assignments, and Design Presentation  
       Homework Quizzes (56%)  – Individual Task  
The quiz questions will be based on chapter readings of the required textbook. The quiz will 
generally have 20 multiple choice questions and will be due on Saturdays by 1 0:00 PM.  
Activity  Type  Count  Unit weight  Total weight  
Homework Quizzes  Individual  14 4% (4 points)  56%  
Homework Assignments  Group  14 3% (3 points)  42% 
Peer evaluation  Individual  1 2% (2 points)  2% 
 3  
Homework Assignments (42%)  – Group Task  
The assignments as subdivided into three component categories: Hands -on activity,  example 
case and  critical thinking exercise  questions . These components have the following weights:  
 
Hands -on activity  (1 point)  
Example case questions : (1 point)  
Critical thinking exercise questions : (1 point)  
 
The homework assignments will be due on Sundays by 10:00 PM. Handouts will be provided 
for the homework assignments on canvas. Please check the due dates of the homework 
assignments on canvas. Since, this is a group assignment, only one submission is required 
per group.  
 
 Assignment Question Details  
Hands -On Exercise Questions : These questions relate to the hands -on activities introduced 
at the end of the chapter. These activities are related to the content covered in the chapter 
and give students hands -on experience, which is highly sought after by employers for  the 
exciting entry -level positions in the industry.  
 
Example Case Questions:  These questions will focus on  the business or social impact of the 
technology covered in each chapter. A wide set of industries will be covered in these cases 
to highlight the history of the industry or company as well as any relevant global issues.  
 
Critical Thinking Exercise Questio ns: These questions relate to critical thinking exercises 
that will require you to critically evaluate cases and provide solutions. These questions will 
help you sharpen your decision -making skills . 
 
Peer evaluation  (4%)  – Individual Task  
All members of a group will receive the same score for the assignments; that is, the 
assignments are assessed, and everyone receives this score. However, that number is 4 2% 
of your grade for this project. The peer evaluation component of  2% is individual and r efers 
to your teamwork. Every person in the group will provide the instructor with feedback for 
every other member of the group, and the instructor will assign a grade that is informed by 
that feedback.  
 
 Group Details:  
Please check your group details in the table provide below . Group channels have been 
created for the groups on MS teams. Students can use these channels for discussing the  4 assignments. 
 
 
 
Group Number Group Leader Group Members
Group 1  Gausal Patel  Gausal Patel
 Alexander Kuhar
 Bradley Louis
   Devansh Pavdighada
 Grace Small
Group 2  Paige Huss   Paige Huss
   Uriel Cerro
 Lorena Froze
 Matthew Hunter
   Octavio Membreno Paz
Group 3 Sen Thomas  Sen Thomas
 Nicolas Byrd
   Mitchell Deshong
 Ahmad Jubara
Daphne Scott
Group 4 Ethan Graber Ethan Graber
Geraldo Alamo
Juliet Hinkley
Elijah Koppel
Nia Lynch
Group 5 Khalil Ahmed Hamood Al Harthi Khalil Ahmed Hamood Al Harthi 
Derek D'Angelo
John Henry Ramsaroop
Esha Rastogi
Colton Sall
Group 6 Michael Little Michael Little
Abdulaziz Alsuhaibani
Nicole Evangelista
Joshua Hariharan
Alexander Trahan
Group 7 Nicholas Deshong Nicholas Deshong
Al Warith Abdul Rahman Ahmed Al Sulaimani
Diana Barrientos
Moni Nguyen
Jason Wang
Group 8 Hamza Butt Hamza Butt
Gunjan Bhagtani
Madison Farrens
Angel Juvera
Lewin Pillsbury
Group 9 Courtney Demato Courtney Demato
Annie Clark
Melissa Kumar
Ishan Lal
Jose Santay5 
 Grade Dissemination and Feedback  
• For weekly quizzes, students will see their scores immediately . 
• For assignments and design case presentation , the instructor will provide feedback 
with scores  generally in a week.  
 
 
 Course Policies: Grades  
Attendance and class participations are not officially included in the grading. However,  
those are cr itical factors for the success in this course. Therefore, low attendance, low  
class participations, and late submissions of assignments may affect the course grade. Any  
missing component of the course assignments will lead to lowering one letter grade. Eac h 
assignment should be unique and reflect students’  efforts.  
 
 Course Schedule  
 
 
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
Date Topics To Be Discussed In Class Assignments/Quizzes Deadlines
10-Jan Introduction to Course + First Day Attendence  + Chapter 1 Quiz 1 due on 14-Jan
12-Jan Chapter 1 - Continued Assignment 1 due on 15-Jan
17-Jan Chapter 2 Quiz 2 due on 21-Jan
19-Jan Chapter 2 - Continued Assignment 2 due on 22-Jan
24-Jan Chapter 3 Quiz 3 due on 28-Jan
26-Jan Chapter 3 - Continued Assignment 3 due on 29-Jan
31-Jan Chapter 4 Quiz 4 due on 4-Feb
2-Feb Chapter 4 - Continued Assignment 4 due on 5-Feb
7-Feb Chapter 5 Quiz 5 due on 11-Feb
9-Feb Chapter 5 - Continued Assignment 5 due on 12-Feb
14-Feb Chapter 6 Quiz 6 due on 18-Feb
16-Feb Chapter 6 - Continued Assignment 6 due on 19-Feb
21-Feb Chapter 7 Quiz 7 due on 25-Feb
23-Feb Chapter 7 - Continued Assignment 7 due on 26-Feb
28-Feb Chapter 8 Quiz 8 due on 4-Mar
2-Mar Chapter 8 - Continued Assignment 8 due on 5-Mar
7-Mar Chapter 9 Quiz 9 due on 11-Mar
9-Mar Chapter 9 - Continued Assignment 9 due on 12-Mar
14-Mar No Class (Spring Break)
16-Mar No Class (Spring Break)
21-Mar Chapter 10 Quiz 10 due on 25-Mar
23-Mar Chapter 10 - Continued Assignment 10 due on 26-Mar
28-Mar Chapter 11 Quiz 11 due on 1-Apr
30-Mar Chapter 11 - Continued Assignment 11 due on 2-Apr
4-Apr Chapter 12 Quiz 12 due on 8-Apr
6-Apr Chapter 12 - Continued Assignment 12 due on 9-Apr
11-Apr Chapter 13 Quiz 13 due on 15-Apr
13-Apr Chapter 13 - Continued Assignment 13 due on 16-Apr
18-Apr Chapter 14 Quiz 14 due on 22-Apr
20-Apr Chapter 14 - Continued Assignment 14 and Peer Evaluation due on 23-Apr6  
 Course Technology & Student Support  
 
Academic Accommodations:  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities 
Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information 
about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at 
http://www.usf.edu/student -affairs/student -disabilities -services/  . 
Academic Support Services:  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Studen t 
Success website at - http://www.usf.edu/student -success/   
 
Canvas Technical Support:  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
Example: If you have technical difficultie s in canvas, you can find access to the canvas 
guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas 
course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing 
help@usf.edu . 
 
 USF Standard University Policies  
 
Academic Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, a nd fairness. 
Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims 
of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty 
reporting of academic misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined 
in detail in USF Regulation 3.027 .  
. 
Academic Grievance Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students 
taking  courses at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts 
and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a 
claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s  academic record 
or status has violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant 
in a manner different from that used for other students.  
 
 
COVID -19 Procedures  7 The health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors on o ur campuses is our top 
priority. In response to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the USF community will be working 
together to support compliance with recommended health and safety standards to 
optimize the learning experience while minimizing health risks.  The Conduct Expectations 
for all members of the community may be accessed at Conduct Expected to Support US F 
Health and Safety Standards  with details provided below:  
 
Students and faculty will be guided by established USF processes to ensure the safest 
possible non -disruptive environment including the:  
(1) Academic Disruption Regulation  which provides for an immediate removal or restriction 
from a classroom setting with academic sanctions and/or  
(2) Student Conduct Reg ulation  to address conduct that is inconsistent with the 
expectations as outlined below:  
1. Complete daily screening as requested.  Anyone experiencing one or more COVID -19 
symptoms should not be on campus or, if a resident, should not be outside their reside nce 
hall room and should contact a medical provider immediately and follow their guidance. 
Please inform your instructor prior to the beginning class if your screening indicates the 
need for further evaluation and you will not be in class.  
2. Wear face cover ings.  All members of the USF community are required to wear face 
coverings while in classrooms or any other shared space, including specified public or 
common -use areas where social distancing guidelines cannot be followed. See this link on 
How To Make A Face Mask . If you have to use a disposable face mask, please discard it in 
a trash receptacle immediately after use.  
3. Maintain so cial distancing.  All students, faculty, staff and guests are required to maintain 
a safe distance from one another. Social distancing is maintained in all indoor and outdoor 
spaces which are owned or controlled by USF.  Stay at least 6 feet (about 2 arms’ length) 
from other people, do not gather in groups, stay out of crowded places and avoid mass 
gatherings. See the CDC for information on Social Distancing . Please sit in only designated 
areas in class and do not move chairs or desks in classrooms or common spaces.  
4. Practice good h and hygiene.  Individuals should wash their hands with soap and water for 
at least 20 seconds as often as possible or use personal hand sanitizers containing at least 
60% alcohol. Hand sanitizer stations are available throughout the campus. If you see one, 
use it! See the CDC recommendations on Hand Hygiene .  
5. Disinfect your classroom space.  Students and faculty are responsible for disinfecting 
areas within their workspaces by cleaning these at the beginning and end of each class. 
This includes desktops , seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant supplies will 
be provided. If paper towels are used to disinfect, they must be discarded in a trash 
receptable immediatel y after use.  
Disability Access  8 Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students Accessibilty 
Services (SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages 
students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business day s prior 
to needing the accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request. Please 
visit the Student  Accessibility Services website  for more information.  
 
Disru ption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of 
the academic process ( USF Regulation 3.025 ) is defined as the act, words, or general 
conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the 
reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic 
matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or  abusive 
interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or 
(b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well -being of self or other persons.  
 
Food and Housing Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial d ifficulty in securing a stable place to live 
and/or in affording sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting 
their performance in classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull 
(feedabull@usf.edu  or their website ), or Student Outreach and Support ( socat@usf.edu  
or their website ).   
 
Religious Observances                                                                      
All students have a right to expect that the University will reas onably accommodate their 
religious observances, practices and beliefs ( USF Policy 10 -045). The University of South 
Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule requi red classes and 
examinations in view of customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups 
or communities comprising USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes 
and take examinations as determined by the university. No studen t shall be compelled to 
attend class or sit for an examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious 
belief. However, students should review the course requirements and meeting days and 
times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as excessive absen ces in a given term may prevent a 
student from completing the academic requirements of a specific course. Students are 
expected to notify their instructors at the beginning of each academic term if they intend 
to be absent for a class or announced examinat ion, in accordance with this Policy.  
Sexual Misconduct / Sexual Harassment               
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including 
sexual harassment and sexual violence ( USF Policy 0 -004). The USF Center for Victim 
Advocacy is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual 
harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violenc e. This confidential resource can help you without having to 
report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities  (OSSR) or 
the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity  (DIEO), unless you request that 9 they make a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF 
Policy, educators must rep ort incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes 
including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any 
of these situations in class, in papers, or personally to an educator, he or she is required 
to report it  to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy : 
813-974-5757.  
Statement of Academic Continuity                               
In the event of an  emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. 
During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that 
include, but are not limited to: Learning Management System, online conferencing, email 
messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor 
the Learning Management System for each class for course -specific communication, and 
the main USF, College, and Department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for 
important general information ( USF Policy 6 -010). For additional guidance on emergency 
protective actions and hazards that affect the University, please visit www.usf.edu/em . 
 