 
Template revise d: 09/6/2022          1  
 
 
 
QMB 6305: Managerial Decision Analysis  
CRN: 2 4733, Section # 521 ( Hybrid section), 2 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Spring 2023 
 
Week 1 (1/14):  In-Class Instruction  
In-Class Meeting Day & Time: Saturday  (1/14) 8:30 am  – 12:30 pm 
In-Class Meeting Location: USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -B229  
 
Weeks 2 through 7 (1/21, 1/28, 2/4, 2/11, 2/18 & 2/25):  Online Instruction  
Section # 521 offers 100% online  asynchronous learning 6 Saturdays with recordings and demo 
videos made available. However, given the nature of subject and challenges faced by students, I 
will be holding live synchronous classes on Micr osoft Teams. I request every student to utilize my 
sessions to learn the subject well to do well in the course.  
Online Class  Meeting Day s: Saturday  (1/21,  1/28,  2/4,  2/11,  2/18  & 2/25) 8:30  am – 12:30 pm 
Online Class Meeting Location: Live Session on Microsoft Teams  
 
Week 8 (3/4): In-Class Instruction  
In-Class Meeting Day & Time: Saturday  (3/4) 8:30 am  – 12:30 pm 
In-Class Meeting Location: USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -B229  
 
Instructor:  Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu  
Office Location:  USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -C229  
Office Hours:  To be held remotely on Microsoft Teams – Schedule  to be announced   
Email:  RGovindu@usf.edu  
 
Note:  This is a 2 -credit hour course. A 2 -credit hour course means 2 hours per week of in -class instruction over 
16-week semester. Since this course runs over 8 weeks,  it will be 4 hours per week of in -class instruction over 
8-week term. Time for course preparation and reading assignments; and time for completing homework 
assignments, quizzes, and exams will be out -side of instructional time just like any other course s tudents take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to a new semester. In this “Managerial Decision Analysis” course; you will 
learn critical thinking, problem solving, analytical skills that would help you throughout your career 
in business and industry. The p urpose of QMB 6305 is to help students (who are current and future 
Business Managers) acquire skills in applying statistical tools / techniques for data -driven business 
analytics and decision making. This course integrates Excel into the course extensively . When 
mastered, and through practice and experience; these skills can help students to get into high 
paying jobs.  
 
 
2  
II. University Course Description  
“A study of the general concepts of interval estimation, hypothesis testing, correlation and multiple 
regression with an emphasis on applications, concepts and interpretation of results. ”   
 
This course teaches basic statistical tools and functions used in business analytics. After reviewing basic 
concepts, measures of central tendency and dispersion, and probability distributions, the course will 
concentrate on confidence intervals, hypothesis tests, regression, and correlation. The emphasis is on 
applications, concepts, and interpretation of results, not derivations and calculations. Statistical 
software is used heavily. The cleaning of data is also emphasized.  
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
None .  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
QMB 6305: Managerial Decision Analysis is a “Business Foundation course” for MBA students. The 
purpose of QMB 6305 is to help students (who are current and future Business Managers) acquire skills 
in applying statistical tools / techniques for data -driven business analytics and decision making. In 
particular, the course emphasizes and prepares students to “learn,” “interpret,” and “be ready to app ly” 
the concepts and methods, rather than learn to do calculations alone.  
 
V. Course Topics  
a. General probability distributions, emphasizing the normal distribution.  
b. Confidence intervals, both calculation and interpretation.  
c. Hypothesis tests, one - and two -tailed, formulation and interpretation.  
d. Model building using simple and multiple regression.  
e. Common variable transforms used in model building.  
f. Common diagnostics for evaluating model fit.  
g. Use and interpretation of simple analysis of variance (ANOVA) tech niques.  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
At the conclusion of this course the successful student will:  
a. Know the basics of probability distributions, the Central Limit Theorem and Sampling 
Distributions.  
b. Be able to use and interpret confidence intervals and hypothesis tests.  
c. Be able to build and interpret simple statistical models with regression.  
d. Know how to evaluate the quality of fit of a simple statistical model.  
e. Understand how to apply and interpret basic analysis of variance methods.  
f. Demonstrate the ab ility to successfully clean data and prepare it for analysis.  
 
VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Modern Business Statistics with Microsoft Excel | 7th Edition by David R. Anderson/Dennis J. 
Sweeney/Thomas A. Williams/Jeffrey D. Camm/James  J. Cochran/Michael J. Fry/Jeffrey W. 
Ohlmann, CENGAGE, ISBN: 978 -0-357-13138 -1 
You can buy a new textbook, a used copy, rent it, or buy an eBook – whatever works out to be 
cheaper for you. The purpose of the textbook is to help students understand the con cepts and 
subject. The textbook also provides a lot of problems for you to practice and learn outside of the 
class. There are a lot of problems provided in the textbook for practice.  
• Course Material (Word Documents) by Dr. Anurag Agarwal, Dr. Ramakrishna G ovindu, and Dr. 
Kwang Tae Park   
 
3 These mandatory documents are posted on Canvas “free -of-cost” for student use. These 
documents integrated Excel into them. Usage of Excel is a mandatory in this course . R is one of the 
most often used scripting languages use d in Business Analytics. If anyone is interested in learning 
R for statistical analysis, we also have the documents with R (R Studio) scripts integrated into them 
that I can make them available to you (Optional).  
• In this course we use “Microsoft Excel” ext ensively . Usage of other spreadsheet applications such 
as Google Sheets, OpenOffice, and others is not acceptable. If you don’t have Microsoft Office on 
your system, as a student of USF you are allowed free download and installation of Microsoft 
Office for  personal use. Check out the info at: 
https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -download.aspx . 
 
VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Additional supplementary (optional) documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed for the 
benefit of students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge. However, students 
will not be tested on the conten t. 
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course  
There is no way to do well in the course without learning. Just follow all the instructions and 
directions provided in the detailed schedule in this document and in weekly communications. 
Always be on time with learning an d complete all the tasks on time. Follow the process steps as 
outlined here. Do not skip any step or short -circuit the process in anyway.  
i. Complete the reading assignments before class by Wednesday every week. Practice solving 
solved example problems in the  course material word documents and in the textbook.  
ii. Optional Live Teams will be held on Thursdays to help students who are interested. These are 
entirely optional (not mandatory at all. But attending them will help learn better because of 
live interactio ns on teams. For the benefit of everyone these sessions will be recorded and 
will be available on our Course Teams. Students who want to attend asynchronously can  play 
and listen/view all the recordings (posted by Thursday nights) in full – do not skip an y 
content.  
iii. Practice solving the solved example problems discussed in class on the PPT and in the demo 
video recordings on your own first. If you are able to solve those problems correctly on your 
own, that is an indication that learning has happened.  
iv. Start  working on homework assignment problems on Friday in Excel. The sooner you get 
started, the more time you will have to work on them and to seek help if and as needed. Do 
not wait until the day of submission or even the final hours to get started on HW ass ignments. 
Submit your homework report (as an Excel file) before the deadline typically 11:59 p.m. the 
following Wednesday (see the detailed schedule in this document for the deadlines). No late 
submissions are allowed for any reason. Students must meet dea dlines for their own learning. 
Attend tutoring sessions to be held on Teams as needed to get help.  
v. Prepare well and submit Quiz before its deadline typically 11:59 p.m. the following 
Wednesday (see the detailed schedule in this document for the deadlines).  No late 
submissions are allowed for any reason. Students must meet deadlines for their own learning.  
vi. Complete all the tasks assigned – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams. HW assignments is 
where you learn. Don’t miss work and lose points unnecessarily.  
vii. Review homework and quiz solutions after they are posted to bridge any gaps in learning. 
Seek help if and as needed.  
viii. Prepare well for exams. Solve all the problems on the exam. Do not provide random and 
irrelevant answers. Any additional inputs will be prov ided in the review session recordings. If 
you follow the above advise, you will do well.  
  
 
4 X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued 
pandemic or hurricane season. If the university transition to remote instruction , classes will be held via 
live, synchronous sessions using Microsoft Teams  and attendance  will be required just like in regular 
classes. You will find the Teams sessions links on your USF Email calendar and Microsoft Teams calendar. 
All course material will be in our course on Canvas.  
 
XI. Communication  
I will communicate with you through Emails from Canvas Inbox. You must also communicate with the 
instructor and the teaching assistant through E -mails from Canvas Inbox. You will find information on 
tone and etiquette when communicating under “Course Policies: Technology and Medi a”. I should be 
able to respond to your e -mails within a day or two at the max  depending on weekday/weekends . It can 
be a bit longer if I am travelling and out of network reach. But I will do my best to respond to you as 
quickly as I can.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)   
97.00 – 100%  A+  
93.00 – 96.99%  A  
90.00 – 92.99%  A-  
87.00 – 89.99%  B+  
83.00 – 86.99%  B  
80.00 – 82.99%  B-  
77.00 – 79.99%  C+  
73.00 – 76.99%  C  
70.00 – 72.99%  C-  
67.00 – 69.99%  D+  
63.00 – 66.99%  D  
60.00 – 62.99%  D-  
0 – 59.99%  F  
 
It is mandatory that students must write both Exam #1 and Exam #2 to earn a final grade in the course. 
Students who do not attempt both the exams will be assigned an “F” grade.  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be entertained .  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be  entertained . 
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Weights (% of 
Final Grade)  
Homework Assignments  (Individual Task – on-line submission through Canvas)  25%  
Quizzes  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20%  
Exam #1  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 25%  
Exam #2  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 30%  
          Total      100%  
  
 
5 XIV. Additional Details on the Course Assignments and Grading Policies  
 
COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Course participation on Canvas on a weekly basis is mandatory . The nature of the course is such, and 
there is also strong evidence that students who participate in the course every week regularly end up 
learning the subject matter better and earn good grades. Students must engage themselves in the 
course through act ive participation, and practice solving as many problems as possible . Since Quizzes 
and Homework assignments are all announced at the beginning of the semester along with their 
deadlines on Canvas; they are due by the deadline indicated irrespective of whe ther you attended or 
missed a class due to various reasons. There will be NO allowances, concessions, or make -up work be 
given for missed HW Assignments and Quizzes that will be assigned zero points. Exams are due as 
indicated in the schedule. No make -up e xams will be given for any one for any reason. Students don’t 
need to do any extra work, all that they have to do is just complete the work assigned as indicated on 
time and every time .  
 
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:  
All homework assignments are individual tasks.  Every week specific topic/s will be covered along with 
solved example problems. Homework will be assigned usually by 9 p.m. on Thursday  that consists of a 
set of problems similar to the solved example problems discussed in class/on PPT files. You will hav e 
sufficient time as indicated on the detailed schedule to solve the problems and to create a Report in 
Excel. Submit your report as an Excel file on Canvas before the due date and time indicated. Microsoft 
Excel MUST BE USED and for solving HW problems. I f Excel is not used (along with Excel functions and 
Excel Data AnalysisToolpak options), zero points will be recorded for the HW assignment.  
 
The strict deadline for HW submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern time on Wednesday as indicated 
on Canvas . For your convenience, they are also listed in the Detailed Course Schedule at the end of this 
document. There will be no extension of due dates. No late submissions will never be allowed . Be 
prepared to lose HW points if the Report is not turned -in before the deadline . No e -mail submissions or 
hard -copy submissions are accepted . All HW scores shall count towards final grade . Homework Reports 
will be graded for Relevancy and Completeness but not for Accuracy . As long as the submissions are 
on time, relevant, com plete, and all the problems are solved; you get full points . Irrelevant solutions 
will earn you zero points . You will get partial credit for partial/incomplete solutions and submissions . 
HW report must demonstrate student’s own work . If any HW reports are found to be copied, all the 
students who helped and/or received help shall be treated as violators, will receive zero points, and 
be reported for academic dishonesty.  Solutions for HW assignments will be made available within a 
couple of days p ast the deadline. It is your responsibility to compare solutions provided with your 
answers and learn from the same in preparation for exams. If you have any questions or need help, you 
MUST seek help from the instructor or student tutor as needed for your  own benefit. Please remember 
that solving Homework Assignments on your own is the most important step in preparing for exams . 
Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring 
websites such as Chegg.com … etc. , and all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Submitting 
work of tutors and classmates (as your own), and reports from tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … 
etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive ze ro points and be 
reported for academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under 
university policies.   
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS AND QUIZZES:  
Reading Assignments are mandatory. Complete course material word document chapter readings  and 
practice them in Excel before the deadlines indicated prior to attending class. As you read the chapters, 
workout the solved example problems in Excel. If you are not completing the assigned tasks before  
 
6 attending classes, you are not doing what is es sential for succeeding in this course.  All Quizzes are 
individual tasks, typically multiple choice and/or fill -in the blank type. Quizzes are open book and open 
notes type and will test student understanding for the subject matter and not rote memorization  nor 
the student ability to search out for answers because they will be of open -book open -note type.  You 
need to really learn the material and understand the subject to do well on quizzes. Please remember 
that solving Quizzes on your own is the most import ant step in preparing for exams . Every week specific 
topic/s will be covered, and an on -line quiz will be assigned on Canvas. Each quiz consists of a set of 
“multiple choice” questions. You will have sufficient time to complete the Quizzes held on Canvas - 
Honorlock . Quiz will be assigned usually by 9 p.m. on Thursday.  The strict deadline for Quiz 
submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern time on Wednesday as indicated on Canvas . It always helps 
and perhaps your performance will be better if the quiz is attem pted after completing the homework. 
Each quiz will be timed and must be completed within allotted time before the deadline indicated . All 
quiz scores shall count towards final grade . A missed quiz will result in a score of zero. Solutions for the 
quizzes w ill be made available within a couple of days past the deadline. Sample quiz may be posted on 
Canvas to help students practice and learn. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under 
university policies. Quizzes are administered online in Can vas using Honorlock  based on USF system 
policies. Honorlock  violations will be reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding with classmates and 
other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., 
and all othe r modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be 
reported for academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under 
university policies.   
 
EXAMS:  
Exams are individual tasks . There will be two exams and both of them are take -home type, held on 
Canvas - Honorlock  and must be completed within the time window indicated . Students cannot miss 
an Exam.  No make -up exams are given . Exam windows are indicated in the course schedule in th is file 
in the following pages. You must make sure you complete the exam and submit your file on time or be 
prepared to lose points. Exams will be open textbook and open notes type . You are allowed to use 
laptops and perform calculations using Excel. Micro soft Excel MUST BE USED and for solving Exam 
problems. If Excel is not used (along with Excel functions and Excel Data AnalysisToolpak options), 
zero points will be recorded for the Exams.  While there will be certainly number crunching involved, it 
will no t be a major focus, and it will be minimized as much as possible. Exams will test the student 
understanding for the application of the methods and interpretation of results. Problems on exams will 
be similar to HW problems. You would not need statistical p ackages for the exams. Exams will be graded 
for Accuracy. Both exam scores shall count towards final grade . Exams are administered online in 
Canvas using Honorlock  based on USF system policies. Honorlock  violations will be reported for 
academic dishonesty.  Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using external resources, 
tutors, tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic dish onesty. Academic 
dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies.   
 
XV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
 
Any feedback will be provided on Canvas. Grades will be posted on Canvas typically within a week or 
two past the deadline after resolving for any student issues.  
 
All submissions happen on Canvas. Instructor will respond to email communication relevant to the 
subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. Students will know their Quiz score immediately 
after su bmission but not solutions key. For academic integrity reasons, Quiz solutions and HW solutions 
will be made available within 1 -2 days (if any issues need to be resolved) after the deadline passes.  
 
7 Grades and comments (as appropriate) for Homework assignme nts and Exams will be posted on Canvas 
typically within 1 -2 weeks past the respective due dates. If any delays happen beyond that time frame 
due to unforeseen circumstances, students will be informed of the possible delays through e -mail. You 
can access yo ur scores at any time using "Gradebook" in Canvas after they are posted.  
   
 
8 XVI. Course Schedule . (* Note: Th is Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed)  
 
In this course, Satur day will be treated as the class meeting day, and Satur day-thru -Friday will be 
treated as a week.   
 
Week  Date  Description  
1 1/14 
(Week of 
1/14–1/20) Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #0 (personal introduction – due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 1/13) 
• Read & Practice in Excel Course Material Word document Chapters 0 and 1 ( by Friday, 
1/13)  
• Do a Quick Review of Textbook Chapters 1, 2, and 3  (by Friday, 1/13) 
Topic: Introduction, Syllabus, Course Outline  
Topic: Data and Descriptive Statistics & Introduction to Probability  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #1 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 1/20)  
• Quiz #1  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 1/20)  
• Read & Practice in Excel Cours e Material Word document Chapter 3 (by Friday, 1/20)  
• Review Textbook Chapter 5 and 6  (by Friday, 1/20) 
2 1/21 
(Week of 
1/21–1/27) Topic: Discrete & Continuous Probability Distributions (Binomial, Poisson, and Normal 
Distributions)  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #2 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 1/27)  
• Quiz #2  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 1/27) 
• Read Course Material Word document Chapter 4 (by Friday, 1/27) 
• Review Textbook Chapters 7 and 8  (by Friday, 1/27) 
3 1/28 
(Week of 
1/28–2/3) Topic: Estimation – Confidence Intervals  
Assignment :   
• HOMEWORK #3 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/3) 
• Quiz #3  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/3) 
4 2/4 
(Week of 
2/4–2/10) Scheduled Event : Review Session & Preparation for Exam #1. No new/additional course 
content will be covered this week.  
Exam #1 ( Honorlock ) – (on Descriptive Statistics, on Discrete & Continuous Probability 
Distributions, and Estimation/Confidence Intervals ) – those topics correspond to Course 
Material Word Document Chapters 1, 3, and 4 & and the corresponding Textbook chapters 
Text book chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8) will open after class on Saturday , 2/4 and close at 11:59 
p.m. Monday , 2/6) 
Assignment :    
 
9 Week  Date  Description  
• Read Course Material Word document Chapter 5 (by Friday, 2/10)  
• Review Textbook Chapter 9  (by Friday, 2/10) 
5 2/11 
(Week of 
2/11–2/17) Topic: Hypothesis Testing  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #4 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/17) 
• Quiz #4  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/17) 
• Read Course Material Word document Chapter 6 ( by Friday, 2/17)  
• Review Textbook Chapter 13  (by Friday, 2/17) 
6 2/18 
(Week of 
2/18–2/24) Topic: Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #5 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/24) 
• Quiz #5  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 2/24) 
• Read Course Material Word document Chapter 8 & Chapter 9 (by Friday, 2/24)  
• Review Textbook Chapter 14 & Chapter 15  (by Friday, 2/24)  
7 2/25 
(Week of 
2/25–3/3) Topic: Simple Linear Regression & Multiple Regression  
Assignment :  
• HOMEWORK #6 (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 3/3)  
• Quiz #6  (due: before 11:59 p.m. Friday, 3/3) 
8 3/4 Scheduled Event : Review Session & Preparation for Exam #2. No new/additional course 
content will be covered this week.  
 
Exam #2 ( Honorlock ) – (on Hypothesis Testing, ANOVA, Simple Linear Regression, and 
Multiple Regression ) – those topics correspond to Course Material Word Document Chapters 
5, 6, 8, and 9 & and the c orresponding Textbook chapters 9, 13, 14, and 15) will open after 
class on Saturday , 3/4 and close at 11:59 p.m. Sunday, 3/5) 
 3/19 Final Grade is reported to USF by 11:59 p.m. Satur day, 3/18 and will be posted on Canvas 
Grade Book by the end of the day on Sunday, 3/19  
 5/12 Grades visible in OASIS  
 
* Notes:  
• The Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed during the semester  
• All the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor.  
 
   
 
10 XVII. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review 
these online: usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx     
 
XVIII.  Course Policies: Grades  
 
Online Proctoring: Online exams and quizzes within this course will require online proctoring. Quizzes 
and examinations will be administered using online proctoring tool - Honorlock . Keeping the audio and 
video (microphone and cam era) on during such exams and quizzes is a must. Therefore, students will be 
required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the  student and that 
recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the 
residence. To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. 
The University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for 
recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any 
third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party 
privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional 
information about online proctoring,  you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
    
Late Work Policy : No late work will be allowed in this course be it for HW assignments, Quizzes, or 
Exams.  Student acquisition of knowledge in this course happens cumulatively. The nature of the course 
is such that student l earning of topics must happen on a weekly basis as scheduled. Otherwise, it will 
affect learning the subsequent weeks. All the due dates for the tasks in this course are announced on 
day 1. It is the responsibility of students to submit their work well ahe ad of time and to meet all the 
deadlines. If proper, correct, and valid submissions do not happen before the respective deadlines; zero 
points will be recorded for the task. The only exception to this policy will be documented medical 
emergencies (if any) for the student needing medical attention with proper medical / hospitalization 
certificate. As all the dates have been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, 
or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late by a sec ond will not qualify for any 
exceptions or concessions as far as the assignment submissions go. Assignments not submitted on time 
mean assignment was not turned in and will earn a zero credit.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : There will be No Extra Credit in this cou rse. There is no need to do any extra work 
in this course. Just do what you have been assigned on -time without -missing the deadlines to become 
eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams) assigned in this course shall 
count towar ds your grade. If you fail to meet the deadline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No 
exceptions. Any exception will be made ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student 
with proper official documentation from the doctor/hospita l.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Students cannot demand an “I” grade as they wish. If any student is not 
earning good grades, that cannot become a basis for asking for an “I” Grade. In such cases “I” grade 
cannot be awarded. It can be requested only under exce ptional circumstances for valid reasons and a 
decision will be made based on USF policy.  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion 
of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing  
 
11 grade . The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For 
undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not 
the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this 
time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not re moved by the end of the time 
limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course require ments due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the 
"I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade 
the student would earn factori ng in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be 
negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were 
due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses 
and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted 
on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : There will be no rewrites in this course. All quizzes and exams can be attempted only 
once. Students can submit their HW reports multiple times, but all the submissions must happen only 
before the set deadline (and not after).  
 
Make -up Exams Policy : There will be No Make -up Exams in t his course. Exams can be attempted only 
once. Time windows for the Exams are announced on Day 1. It is the student responsibility to adjust 
their schedules to give their exams during the exam time window. No change of dates will be 
entertained unless there  is absolutely an exceptional circumstance at student’s end and for documented 
medical emergencies and only if student has notified the instructor in advance and certainly not after 
the deadline passes. As all the dates have been announced at the beginning  of the semester, being on 
office trip, or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late will not qualify for any exceptions 
or concessions. If Exams are not submitted on time, zero points will be recorded.  
 
Exam Retention Policy : Not applicable for this course as all the Exams are Honorlock  -based. Student 
submission happen on Canvas so there will be an electronic record. So, whatever USF policy is for 
Canvas course retention that applies for the course.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy : Not applicable.  
 
Group Work Policy : All the tasks in the course – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams are individual 
tasks. There is no group work allowed in this course. If there is any group work in the group work, that 
would be plagiarism. In such inst ances, action will be taken on students based on USF policy on 
academic integrity violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final 
examination policy.  
 
Campus Free Expression: It is funda mental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can  
 
12 be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, a nd that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that 
certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage 
with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does 
not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIX. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Email : I am Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu, and I will be your instructor for this course. My e -mail address is: 
RGovindu@usf.edu . If you are e -mailing me, as a courtesy, please commence your email with a greeting 
such as “Dear Dr. Govindu,” “Hel lo Dr. Govindu,” or “Dr. Govindu.” Please write the appropriate subject 
and please write your name at the bottom of the email.  
 
How to communicate with me  
Given the ongoing pandemic situation, the best way to reach me is through e -mail that will be quicker. 
Leaving voice message on my office phone would not be good during these pandemic times. Response 
times can be longer that way. Sending an e -mail would be  the best given the current situation. Should 
you need help with the course, we can set up time to discuss remotely at mutual convenience. 
Meanwhile, you can email me with the questions, and I may be able to clarify your questions through an 
e-mail. If at all needed, we can set up an appointment at mutual convenience for a tele -conversation 
and if possible and required a Microsoft Teams meeting.  
 
How NOT to communicate with me  
• Please don’t post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework submissio ns. I will not 
read your comments until I sit down to grade your assignment.  
• Please don’t email me from a non -USF email account.  
• Please don’t submit deliverables to me through e -mail. It will be treated as a non -submission.  
• Please don’t reply to an email t hat I send to the entire class without changing the subject unless 
your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email 
address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and delete all previous text fro m that email, 
if your email pertains to something else. In which case it is better to not use the “reply” button and 
just start a fresh email.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will use the Canvas messaging utility to send you all emails pertaining to th e course. So, you must check 
your USF mail account (and/or your e -mail where you receive USF e -mails by default). Whenever a 
student asks a question and I reply directly to that student. If and where the student question and my 
reply are very important for  the rest of the class to know, I will send out a mass e -mail, hiding the 
student identity. Students over the years found such inputs quite beneficial for them.  
 
When students send me e -mails, I get them in my USF e -mail Inbox, and I will reply through my USF e -
mail. If I am sending e -mails, I will use Canvas messaging feature to send e -mails. You should also do the 
same. I deal with almost hundred students and sometimes even more and I receive hundreds of e -mails. 
When you send e -mails through Canvas, I wi ll instantly know who you are, in which course of mine you 
are in, I will understand the context for the question, and what is it that you are asking and why. That 
will help me to respond quickly. Otherwise, it could take a little longer. I respond very qu ickly – 
sometimes within minutes, sometimes within a few hours, sometimes within a day or so depending on 
the nature and importance of communication, circumstances, and the situation at my end. I respond on  
 
13 weekends too. But expect the response times to be  little longer if it is weekends and if I am travelling. 
But be assured I will respond, and I will respond to student e -mails very quickly as I am able to.  
 
Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your end are technolog y 
related you must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas Helpdesk, and/or Honorlock  Helpdesk depending 
on the issue, and they will help you immediately. I won’t be able to resolve your technology issues.  
 
Canvas : Describe how you will use Canvas in the cour se, how often students should expect to login, how 
team activities will be organized, due dates, policies on late participation, etc.  
Example: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you 
need help learning how to  perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view Canvas videos, or consult the Canvas help guides. If new to Canvas, 
read this guide . You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Honorlock: In this course, we use Canvas - Honorlock  for all Quizzes and Exams. Students are therefore 
required to have a webcam with a microphone (either USB or mounted into your computer).   
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing 
requirement s, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an 
agreement to abide by and accept all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course 
before the end of the drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes with in this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be 
required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the st udent and that 
recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the 
residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The 
University library and other aca demic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings 
and students with concerns may discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their 
instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade a ny third -party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and 
high-speed internet connecti on. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. 
To use Honorlock students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome 
extension  (Links to an external site.) ." For additional information please visit the USF online 
proctoring student FAQ  (Links to an external site.)  and Honorlock student resources  (Links to an 
external site.) .  
Students need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download the 
Honorlock extensio n. Your system also needs webcam, and you need to present your ID (any Photo 
ID would be enough you can simply use your USF ID) for verification to get into Honorlock Quizzes 
and Exams.  
 
Specific information / instructions will be provided on all Honorlock  Quizzes and Honorlock Exams. 
For additional information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.  
  
 
14 WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication : While students may use digital 
communication tools (WhatsApp, Grou pMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students, it is important 
to remember that academic integrity policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about 
the contents of tests is prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information 
about an examination. Students are expected and required to immediately report instances of such 
violations to the instructor.  
 
Laptop Usage:  You would need a proper laptop with microphone and webcam (either built in or 
external) for use in this course. Describe your policies for using laptops throughout your course. 
Whether you dislike the use of laptops during your lecture, or whether you encourag e using a laptop 
during discussion, or wish for all students using laptops to sit in a particular region of the classroom, feel 
free to state it here.  
 
Classroom Devices/Student Recording:  Not applicable. Describe your policies for using calculators, tape 
recorders, and other student -owned audio & technology devices for your course.  
 
Phone Usage: Describe your policies for student phone use in class, including texting or surfing the 
Interne t. If you are using social media for a “backchannel” conversation, mention it here. If you would 
prefer that students not take photos/video/audio recordings of you, or of the whiteboard notes at the 
end of the class, state so here.   
 
XX. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy:  In a 100% online, Course Participation serves as attendance Policy. Please refer to 
section XII for the details on Course Participation.  
Example: Students are expected to attend classes. Faculty mu st inform students of attendance 
requirements on syllabi. Instructors should accommodate excused absences by making 
arrangements with students ahead of time (when possible) or by providing a reasonable amount of 
time to make up missed work.  
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by up loading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically 
to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary 
materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionali sm Policy:  Complete your work and submit reports on time every time well before the 
respective deadlines on assignments.  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette, mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all 
classroom and lab lectures. Those  not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab 
immediately so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on time for all class 
meetings. Students who habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have bee n 
warned may suffer a reduction in their final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made availabl e at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued.  
  
 
15 Food and Drink Policy:  Not Applicable.  
Example: Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages  (other than bottled/capped water), food, 
tobacco products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for this policy 
and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. This policy will be strictly enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this cour se Turnitin service will be utilized for all the assignments to prevent plagiarism. 
The University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service 
which allows student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of 
web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. 
Accordingly, you will be expected to submit al l assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. 
After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if 
and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process 
visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students are 
requested to maintain confidentiality as a way to keep their personal contact information (i.e., 
name, address, telephone) from being disclosed to vendors or other outside agencies. By your 
submission, you are also agreeing to release your original work for review for academic purposes to 
Turnitin. 
 
In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying 
information, suc h as name, in the body of the document. While submitting to Turnitin, PLEASE 
REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID#. 
ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE NAME AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., 
“U12345678 Essay 1. docx”) before submitting.  
 
Plagiarism:  
Definition of plagiarism  in USF Regulation 3.027.   
Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It 
includes submitting an assignment purporting to be the student’s original work which has 
wholly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of t he work, 
ideas, representations, or words of another person without customary and proper 
acknowledgement of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarification in 
any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue and will ha ve plagiarized in any 
situation in which their work is not properly documented.  
a) Every direct quotation must be identified by quotation marks or appropriate indentation and 
must be properly acknowledged by parenthetical citation in the text or in a foot note or 
endnote.  
b) When material from another source is paraphrased or summarized in whole or in part in 
one’s own words, that source must be acknowledged in a footnote or endnote, or by 
parenthetical citation in the text.  
c) Information gained in readin g or research that is not common professional knowledge must 
be acknowledged in a parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or endnote.  
d) This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the use of papers, reports, projects, and other 
such mat erials prepared by someone else.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines   
 
16 1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructi ve when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs , or 
other general differences.  
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be  perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
XXI. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a com prehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseli ng Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.   
 
17 Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brai nstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing  studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXII. Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
Example:  
Drop/Add Deadline:    Fri, Jan 13, 202 3 
Dr. Martin Luther King Day Jr. Holiday : Mon, Jan 16, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Opens:    Mon, Feb 20, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Closes:    Tues, Mar 7 , 202 3 
Spring Break Week:    Mon, Mar 13 – Sun, Mar 19, 2023  
Withdrawal Deadline:    Sat, Mar 25 , 202 3 
Test Free Week:    Sat, Apr 22  - Fri, Apr 28 , 202 3 
Final Examination Week:    Sat, Apr 29  - Thurs, May 4 , 202 3 
 