1 MAN 4280
Organizational Development and Change  
Spring 2023 
Muma College of Business  
COURSE SYLLABUS 
Instructor: Dr. Michael Donahue  E‐Mail: donahuem@ usf.edu   
Term: Spring 202 3 Dates: 1/9/22‐5/4/21 
Delivery 
Method: 100% Online through CANVAS  Location: Online  
Minimum   
Technical  
Skills &  
Requirements: To take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate 
proficiency at basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and 
meet the computer system requirements listed here:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative‐
education/resources/studen tservices/technical‐requirements.aspx  
Virtual Office 
Hours:   MS Teams Meeting Preferred – Email to arrange a day and time 
Welcome  
Welcome to MAN 4280  for Spring 202 3!  I am excited to meet everyone and spend the 
Spring semester learning, evaluating, and applying  the principles of organizational 
development  and change, organizational culture, and action research to your academic 
journey.  This course focuses on four major parts : organizational change (OD), 
organizational change (O C), organizational culture,  and action research .    
University Course Description  
MAN 4280 is primarily a lab course where students experimentally apply behavioral science 
techniques in an "action -research" framework to the cycle of planned change to build a 
more effective organization  and address immediate business challenges or concerns.  
Course Prerequisites 
MAN 3025 with a minimum grade of C-.
Cour se Purpose   
This cours e aims to provid e a foundational understanding of OD, OC, th e impact and 
importanc e of developing an influential organizational work culture, and applying the 
action research methodology in a lab-typ e format .  
2    Instructor Contact Information and Communication   
Feel free to email me through CANVAS or my USF email; I typically check each da ily and 
respond within 24 hours.    
  
Course Netiquette.  Keep these in mind during our course  interaction .   
 a.   Identify yourself clearly  
b. Include a salu tation, subject line , and signature for all email communication  
c. Acknowledge and return messages   
d. Be concise  
   
  First Week Attendance Policy  
First -week attendance is generally through the ' Introductions ' assignment.  Students who 
do not complete this first‐week activity by the due date run the risk of being dropped . 
  
 How to Succeed in this Course  
• Demonstrate respect for your classmates.   You should consider this course becaus e 
experimenting with new ways of acting and thinking is encouraged and respected.  
• Not to engage in any unethical behaviors, such as cheating or plagiarism on tests or 
written assignments.   Asking for a grade will be considered unethical behavior.   
• Keep in mind the following three caveats to succeed in this course: (1) read and 
watch the assig ned reading materials; (2) participate in course requirements; (3) 
review materials to ensure you understand the course concepts ; 4) have fun!   
  
 Course Structure   
This course has nine modules  with a combination of various assignments.  You will have a 
series of Discussion Boards, Short Essay Responses, short knowledge checks, a nd a  four -
part action research lab .  The course has a book ; it is a paperback, relatively short, 
inexpensive, and widely available online.    
  
  Student Learning Outcomes   
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
• Comprehend and discuss significant  theories, concepts, and principles of OD and OC .  
• Apply the conce pts, best practices,  and principles for creating organizational culture .   
• Identify the four main phases of action research .  
• Apply action research methodology to support OD and OC initiatives.   
  
  Required Course Materials   
1)  Course Book: Own Your Culture: How to Define, Embed and Manage your 
Company Culture  Paperback – September 21, 2020  
 
 
 
3   
2)  Other required material posted in the CANVAS modules .  
    
  Grading 
Scale   
      
Grading 
Scale    
A+  97‐
100  Exceptional work  
A  93‐
97    
Superior work  
A‐  90‐
93  
B+  87‐
89    
  
Above average work  B  83‐
87  
B‐  80‐
83  
C+  77‐
79    
Average work  
C  70‐
77  
D  60‐
69  Below average work  
F  <60  Fail  
  
  
 Grade Categories and Weights  
  
Assignment   Percent of Final Grade  
Short Essay  (3)  25% 
Discussion Boards (7-8)  25% 
Knowledge Checks (3)    25% 
Action Research Lab (Four Parts)   25% 
 Total  100% 
  
4   Assignments  
Each Module outlines the weekly due outs for the assigned period .  
  
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination   
I normally provide feedback on assignments the same week they are posted .  Any quiz or 
online assessment is graded automatically by CA NVAS, and the score appears after 
submission.  You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas.  
  
 Course Schedule  
Please review the CANVAS page that outlines our entire course.    
  
 USF Standard University Policies   
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that a pply to all classes at USF.   These may be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core‐syllabus‐policy‐statements.aspx    
  
 Course Policies: Grades   
  
Late Work Policy :   
Up to 24 hours late – You can earn up to 75% of the total for the missed w ork.  
25‐48 hours late ‐ You can earn up to 50% of the total for the missed work.  
>48 hours late – You can earn up to 25% of the total for the missed work.  
  
Grades of "Incomplete" :  
For USF Tampa graduate courses and USFSP undergraduate and graduate courses:  An 
Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor 's discretion only 
when students cannot complete course requirements due to illness  other 
circumstances beyond their control.   The course instructor and student must co mplete 
and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the 
date it is due, and the grade the student would earn , factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments.   The due date can be negotiated and extended by the 
student/i nstructor as long as it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate 
courses .  One semester for graduate courses from the original date grades was  due for 
that course.   An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate 
courses and one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will 
revert to the grade noted on the contract.   
  
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
  
Course Hero Policy:    
5  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose.   This 
does apply specifically to CourseHero.com – any use of this website (including 
uploading materials) constitutes a viola tion of the academic integrity policy.   
  
Turnitin.com:    
  In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized.   Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with 
billions of web sites, as wel l as an enormous database of student papers that grows 
with each submission.   Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in 
both hard copy and electronic format.   After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from tur nitin.com that states if and how another author 's work was  
used in the assignment.   For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com .   
  
End of Semester Student Evaluations:    
Example: All classes at USF use an online system for stu dents to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course.   These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens.   
Your participation is highly encouraged and val ued.   
  
Netiquette Guidelines:   
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate.   Treat your instructors and peers 
with respect the same way you would do in a face‐to‐face environment.   Respect 
other people 's ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points 
you may disagree with.    
2. Be sensitive.   Be respectful and discreet  when sharing your ideas and opinions.   
There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and 
religious beliefs , or other general differences.    
3. Proofread and check the spelling.   Doing this before sending an email or posting a 
thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful.   Avoid using  all capital letters ; it can be perceived as shouting, and it is 
more difficult to read.   
4. Keep your  communications focused and stay on topic.   Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject.   By keeping the message on the focus , you allow the readers to 
get your idea or answers they are looking for easily .   
5. Be clear with your message.   Avoid using hum or or sarcasm.   Since people can 't see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.    
 
 Course Technology & Student Support   
  
Canvas Technical Support:   
Include information where students can find technical support.   
6  Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can access  the canvas guides and 
video resources in the "Canvas Help " page on the homepage of your canvas course.   You 
can also contact the help desk by calling 813‐974‐1222 in Tampa or emailing help @usf.edu .  
  
 Important Dates to Remember  
  
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
    
    
    
    
