1  ISM6021  Management  Information  Systems  
MUMA  College  of Business  
School  of Information  Systems  and Management  
 
COURSE  SYLLABUS  
 
Delivery method:  
In-Person & via Canvas  
Location: On Campus  
Instructor: Dr. Matthew Mullarkey 
Instructor  email:  mmullarkey@usf.edu  
Virtual  Office  Hours:  Technology  using  Microsoft  Teams  or mobile  call as arranged  with  Professor  
 
Minimum  Technical  Skills  & Requirements:  
In order  to take  courses  online  at USF,  you will need  to be able  to demonstrate  proficiency  at 
basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system  
requirements  listed at:  
https://www.usf.edu/it/remote/requirements -for-students.aspx  
 
 
University  Course  Description  
An introduction  to the fundamentals  of information  systems  including  an examination  of 
information technology terminology and concepts, alternative methodologies for 
developing informati on systems, and the application and impact of information 
technology in contemporary organizations.  
Course  Prerequisites  
No prerequisites.  
Course  objectives  
By the end of this  course,  you will be able  to: 
• Analyze  a tough  socio -technical  business  decision  and make  a recommendation  on the 
most feasible courses of action to the decision -maker in the organization.  
• Read and analyze a business case and share your analysis in a group online forum . 
• Demonstrate an ability to develop multiple plausible solutions to a tough business 
decision  based  upon  empirical  evidence  identified  in the course  of the investigation  of 
the tough decision with an organization.  
Instructor  Contact  Information  and Communication  
Email is always the best way to contact me. Please avoid messaging me through Canvas 
because  it is often  unreliable.  Instead,  always  use your  USF email  account  and include  the 
name of our course somewhere in your email. Please allow 24 hours for a response and 
longer over the weekend. Ho wever, if you are emailing me to inform me of an urgent 
issue, please write ‘urgent’ in the subject line of the email.  
 
First  Week  Attendance  Policy  
2  In the first week of class, you will be required to complete a First Day Attendance  
discussion  board  post  to introduce yourself  and register  your  first day attendance.  Your 
post is due by Monday of the first week of class at 11:59pm. Students who do not 
complete the First Day Attendance activity by the due date will be dropped from the 
course.  
How  to Succeed  in this Course  
One of my goals  is to make  this class  as personally  and professionally  relevant  to you as 
possible. To succeed in this course, follow the Course Schedule, regularly check our 
Canvas page to make sure that you are up -to-date with deadlines, and ask questions 
anytime you would like clarification.  
Required  Texts  and/or  Readings  and Course  Materials  
All slides, assignments, and case discussions are available on Canvas – no books or 
other  purchases  are required  for this course.  Online  discussion  threads  will occur  on 
Canvas.  
Supplementary  (Optional)  Texts  and Materials  
Unless  otherwise  indicated,  all materials  in Canvas  are required.  
Grading  Scale  
Grade  components:  Case  Discussion Assignments (individual)  100% 
Pre-Case,  Opening,  Online  Discussion,  Post -Case  Reflection  
Grading  scale:  Letter  grades  as per USF policy  with  letter  grade  +/- awarded  and 
calculated automatically on Canvas.  
Instructor  Feedback  Policy  & Grade  Dissemination  
Instructor  will respond  to email  communication  relevant  to the subject  matter  within  48 
hours of the date received. Instructor will provide feedback on assignments within one 
week of the posted deadline. You can access your scores at an y time using "Grades" in  
Canvas . 
Case  Discussion  Assignments  
The class will be divided into groups. Each group will “Open” the case discussion 
on the same week as the number for their team – Group 1 will Open Case 1 on 
Monday of Week 1; Group 2 will Open Case 2 on Monday of Week 2; etc… An 
opening is where each stud ent in the group takes one of the opening questions 
for that week’s case and makes a post to share their perspective. This “opens” 
one thread in the case discussion. All other students can then review the post and 
add the ir post to that thread. A temptatio n is to “open” by posting your pre -case 
assignment – that is not what we want and will not lead to full credit for the post.  
Each group should post to their respective case by Monday of the week of their 
respective group’s case – the Group number correspon ds to the Case number 
and the week of the Case opening . Please note it is the responsibility of the group 
members to select questions so that responses to all questions are posted. If 
there are enough people in the group, there may be more than one person to 
each question and this is fine.  
All other students can then review and start posting to the various threads not 
later than Tuesday each week . Since we will discuss each case in -person during 
3  class for this in -person version of the course f ull credit is awarded  to each 
student who makes at least one  high -quality posts to one thread each week and 
who then participates in the discussion in class.  
These assignments are designed to make you read and critically think about the 
assigned readings/case discussions for that class.  Some  assignments  may require 
additional research on  your  part beyond  the assigned readings. Your discussion of 
the case discussion questions should be concise, direct, and structured.  
Each week,  you will submit a pre -case analys is and a post -case reflection in 
addition to your online threaded posts. These three exercises over the eight 
weeks of the course constitute the graded assignments.  
The case  discussions  online  will follow  a protocol  designed  to get everyone  a chance 
to open a  case and to comment  on multiple threads  for the cases  throughout  the 
week. The protocol has a Preparation Phase, an Opening Phase, a Participation 
Phase, and a  Reflection Phase. Every student will prepare each case and submit a 
Pre-case each week pr ior to the Opening Phase beginning. Then, the Group that 
opens will have each team member (you cho ose) answer one or more questions 
posted to the online threaded discussion for that case – this will start something 
like 6 -7 discussion threads. Every studen t (including posting students) must then 
make  multiple postings  to multiple  threads of  online  discussions over  the course  of 
the week. Finally, at the close of the week (Saturday typically), each student 
submits  a Post -case  for the case  that  week  to report  their  lessons  learned and how  
their  point of view on the case changed over the course of the week and the posts 
by classmates.  
For this in -person version of the course, we will meet one evening each of the 
eight weeks of class (note there is no meet ing the week of Spring Break when 
that week falls during the course dates in Spring). The in-person sessions will 
allow us to discuss each case as a group based upon the pre -case submission and 
the case openings completed by each group each week. This is a  very valua ble 
and required attendance for the in -person version of this course.  
 
Before  each  case:  Preparation  
Students should expect to spend 2 -3 hours preparing each case study. Preparing a  case  
typically involves:  
• Reading  the case  
• Making  notes  and analyzing  the case  during  a careful  second  reading  
 
Post  your  Pre-case  using  the form  provided  where  you define  the Issue (as  you 
see it), your Recommendation (to the Company/Protagonist), and  your 
Justification (using facts from the case and any research you conducted).  
 
Your goal  in the Pre -Case  is to identify (1) the Most important Issue  facing the 
protagonist (from the student’s point of view –there are always multiple key 
issues in every decision case), (2) your Recommendation on how the 
prota gonist  should  address  the issue,  and,  (3)your  Justification  with  facts  from 4  the case for the recommendation.  
 
Each  week,  Pre-Case  submissions  for each  student  will be graded  on a scale  of: 
• 3.0 - Excellent  pre-case  – definitely  one of the key issues,  great  recommendation,  well 
justified with facts from the case!  
• 2.5 - Very  good  identification  of the key issue  and solid  recommendation.  Good 
identification  of facts to support your recommendation. Expand upon your support for 
full credit in future submiss ions.  
• 2.0 - Good  identification  of key  issue.  Add more  to your  recommendation  and the facts to  
support it for full credit in future submissions.  
• 2.0 - Good  submission  - what  I would  prefer  to see for full credit  in future  submissions  is 
that you simply state the key issue in a sentence or two and then spend more time on 
the justification.  
• 1.5 – Below  Average  submission.  Add more  to key issue,  recommendation  and 
justification  for full credit in future pre -case submissions  
• 1.0 – Weak  Pre-case  submission  requiring  significant  improvement  in all areas  of the 
submission for full credit in future submissions.  
• 0 – Unsatisfactory  or missing  submission.  
Monday  of the week  when  a case  is discussed:  Opening  questions  
For each case, before Monday  at 9 pm of the week that a case is being  discussed,  
 each student for the team assigned to open must post his or her opening thread as  
a response to their question.  
 
The discussion for a new case discussion will open each Monday.  
 
Case  discussion  week:  Participating  in the discussion  
Once an opening response has been posted, the rest of the class must 
enter the discussion. Each student should feel free to respond with as 
many  posts  as desired.  Each  student’s  participation  in every  discussion  will 
be graded. Full credit will be given to students making multiple, high 
quality posts throughout the week to multiple question threads over 
multiple days.  
 
What  we typically  look  for in discussions  is the following:  
• High quality posts will frequently include specific references to facts in 
the case  that  you believe  are important.  You may  also reference  outside 
sources if you found them to be valuable.  
• When  responding  to another  student’s  comments  it helps  if you give  the 
name  of the student,  since  the number  of posts  can become  quite  large.  
o Agreeing with a previous  post without adding something  new gets you  
nothing.  If, on the other  hand,  you agree  and then  point  out 
something that was missed or requires clarification, that is fine.  
o Disagreeing  with  a previous  post —provided  a good  explanation  of 
why  you disagree  in included —is considered  in a very  positive  light.  
• Repeating what someone else said simply bloats the discussion; you 5  should  always  strive  to add something  new.  The earlier  an idea  is posted, 
the more likely it will be credited.  
• If all your posts appear to have been made in one setting (their dates and 
times  cluster  together),  we will normally  deduct  points.  We like to see back 
and forth in a discussion and that cannot happen when students enter  the 
discussion for just onesession.  
 
Each  week,  discussion  threads  for each  student  will be graded  on a scale  of: 
3.0 - Excellent  high -quality  contributions  to multiple  discussion  threads  over  multiple  days.  
2.5 - Very  good  high  quality  contributions to  multiple  threads.  Contribute  to more  
discussion threads over multiple days for full credit in future discussions.  
2.0 - Good contributions to  the discussions.  Add more  high  quality  contributions  to multiple  
threads over multiple days for full credit in future discussions.  
1.5 – Below  average  contributions  in number  and quality.  
1.0 – Weak  contribution  to discussion  
threads. 0 – Unsatisfactory or missing 
submissions.  
 
After  the (online  & in-class)  discussion:  Post -case  reflection  
After  participating  in each  discussion,  students  will fill out a Post -Case  form  and 
upload it to Canvas. This form will consist of two questions:  
 
What  are the three  most  important  things  you learned  from  the case?   
And,  why  were they important for you to learn?  
1. How  did the case  discussion  change  your  view  of the case?  
The post  case  form  must  be completed  by each  student  for all cases  (read  the case 
discussions for both cases to gain some insight into the reflections you post.)  
 
Each  week,  discussion  threads  for each  student  will be graded  on a scale  of: 
3.0 - Excellent  reflections  on key learnings  and why they  were  important  to learn  as well 
as your reflection on how your point of view was affected by the discussion.  
2.5 - Very  good  reflections  on learnings  and point  of view.  Add why  each  learning  was 
important  to learn for full credit in future reflections.  
2.0 - Good  reflections.  Spend  additional  time  on how  your  point  of view  was affected  by 
the discussions for full credit in future reflections.  
2.0 - Good  reflections.  Spend  more time  on the three things  learned  and why they  were  
important to learn for full credit in future reflections.  
1.5 - Good  reflections but  spend  significantly more time on  the three things learned and  
why they were  important  to learn  and on how  the discussion  effected  your  point  of view  of the 
case  for full credit  in future reflections.  
1.0 – Weak  reflection  contributions.  
0 – Unsatisfactory  or missing  submissions.  
 
 Class  Schedule:  Available  through  the Modules  list in Canvas  
 
6  Note: The above schedule  is tentative  and may be  subject to  change. However, any 
and all such changes will be announced through Canvas or in class.  
 
Standard  University  Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity  and misconduct,  academic  continuity,  food  insecurity,  and sexual  harassment  are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These may be 
accessed on the USF Core Syllabus Policy Statements page  at 
https:// www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx.  
 
Course  Policies:  
Late  Work  Policy  
Late  work  may  be accepted – with at  least a  letter  grade penalty.  
Extra  Credit  Policy  
There’s  no extra  credit.  
Course  Policies:  Student  Expectations 
Turnitin.com  
In this course, turnitin.com may be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors  may  use to quickly  and easily  compare  each  student's  assignment  with  billions 
of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each 
submission. After an assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from  
turnitin.com  that  states  if and how  another  author’s  work  was used  in the assignment.  For 
a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
 
End of Semester  Student  Evaluations  
All classes  at USF make use of  an online system for  students  to provide feedback to the 
University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available  at the end of the 
semester,  and the University  will notify  you by email  when  the response  window  opens. 
Your participation is highly  encouraged and valued.  
 
Netiquette  Guidelines  
1. Act professionally  in the way you communicate.  Treat  your  instructors  and peers  with 
respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other  
people’s  ideas  and be constructive  when  explaining  your  views  about  points  you may 
not agree  with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There 
will be people  in your  class  with  different  linguistic  backgrounds,  political  and religious 
beliefs or other general differences.  
3. Proofread  and check  spelling.  Doing  this before  sending  an email  or posting  a thread 
on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letter s, it can be perceived as if you are 
shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before 
changing  the subject.  By keeping  the message  on focus  you allow  the readers  to easily 
get your i dea or answers they are looking for.  
7  5. Be clear  with  your  message. Avoid  using  humor  or sarcasm.  Since  people  can’t  see 
your  expressions  or hear  your  tone  of voice, meaning  can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email  and Discussion  Board  Guidelines  
1. Use the subject  line effectively  by using  a meaningful  line of what  your  email  or 
discussion is about.  
2. Keep  your  emails  and postings  related  to the course  content.  You should  not post 
anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  
3. Any pers onal,  course  or confidential  issues  should  be directly  communicated  to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues 
should not be posted there.  
Learning  Support  and Campus  Offices 
Academic Accommodations  
Students  with  disabilities  are responsible  for registering  with  Student  Accessibility  Services  
(SAS)  in order  to receive  academic  accommodations.  For additional  information  about 
academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS w ebsite.  
SAS website  for the Tampa  and Sarasota -Manatee  campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic  Support  Services  
The USF Office  of Student  Success  coordinates  and promotes  university -wide  efforts  to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of  
academic  support  services  available  to all USF students,  please  visit the Office  of Student 
Success website.  
Office of Student Success website for the Tampa campus.  
Office  of Student  Success  website  for the St. Pete  campus.  
Office  of Student  Success  website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Canvas  Technical  Support  
Include  information  where  students  can find technical support.  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas 
guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas 
course.  You can also contact  the help  desk  by calling  813-974-1222  in Tampa  or emailing 
help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website  for the St. Pete  campus.  
IT website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Center  for Victim  Advocacy  
Example : The Center  for Victim  Advocacy  empowers  survivors  of crime,  violence,  or abuse 
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by 
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
Center for Victim Advocacy website for the Tampa campus.  
Center  for Victim  Advocacy  websi te for the St. Pete  campus.  
8  Center  for Victim  Advocacy  website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Counseling  Center  
Example : The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that 
enhances  student  academic  and personal  success.  Contact  information  is available  online. 
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling  Center  website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Tutoring  
Example:  The Tutoring  Hub offers  free tutoring  in several  subjects  to USF undergraduates. 
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email 
asctampa@usf.edu.  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring  website  for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring  website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Writing  Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate 
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with 
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are 
recommended,  but not required.  For more  information  or to make  an appointment,  email  
writingstudio@usf.edu . 
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing  studio  website  for the St. Pete  campus.  
Writing  studio  website  for the Sarasota -Manatee  campus.  
 
Important  Dates  to Remember  
For important  USF dates,  see the Academic  Calendar  at 
http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  
 
    XVIII. Course Assignments Summary:  
Available directly in Canvas.  
