 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
MAN6 305: Human Resource Management  
School of In formation Sys tems and Management  
Muma College of Business, University of South Florida 
 
 
Semester: Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Time: 6: 15-10:00pm Mon days (from Feb 6 to May  1, 202 3)  
Class Meeting Location: BSN 2201 
Instructor: Prof. Terry A. Boyd  
Office Location: BSN 3516  
Office Hours: 5:00 – 6:00PM Mon days (from Feb 8 to April  26, 202 1) or by appointment  
Email: boyd56@usf.edu   
 
 
 
 
I. Welcome Message 
Welcome  to Human Resource Management.  This course will introduce you to concepts found  
in the human resource  literature that will help you as you progress in your career. This course 
will help you to become fully acquainted with the academic concepts of HRM and apply them to 
day to day situations at the workplace . The course will be taught from the perspective that you 
are or will som eday be a leader in an organization with a grasp of the benefits of HRM.  
 
 
II. University Course Description 
Course focuses on the complex decision -making processes involved in the management of human 
resources within an organizational system geared to meeting both individual needs and 
organizational objectives.  
 
 
III. Course Overview  
An examination of the theory and practice of human resource management,  including 
assisting students with building skills needed to recruit, select, train, and develop people. The 
course is design to assist the student with the application  of human resource skills 
developed by presenting the course in five phases: 1) Mission/Values; (2) Producing staffing 
to achieve organizational goals; (3) Sustaining quality staff; (4) Appropriately supporting 
employees; and (5) Societal responsibility.  
 
IV. Learning Goals  
The course is divided into quarters with each focusing on specific reading assignments and 
project presentations and possible examinations. To be successful, students should be 
prepared for each class by reading prior to class time and prepare for participation.  Each 
class will include discussions that will challenge students to:  
1. Comprehend and explain major concepts, and principles of human resource 
management  processes    
2. Analyze issues of  human resource management  using appropriate met hods  
3. Apply theories, concepts, techniques, and principles of human resource 
management correctly in new and/or cha llenging situations  
4. Create and evaluate human resource management  solutions based on the field of 
knowledge and evi dence  from successful prac tice. 
Note: Students are required to subscribe to SQUARECAP (a classroom response 
application). See the SQUARECAP Assignment on Canvas for instructions.  
 
V. Course Objectives 
At the end of this course stud ents shou ld be able to: 
1. Demonstrate knowledge  of human resource management  and related processes that are 
unique to this field of study.  
2. Analyze when change is needed  within human resource management programs  and 
target strateg ies for implementing  techniques  for change success . 
3. Demonstrate  knowledge of  individual  and group engagement methods while  adapting to 
legal guidelines . 
4. Recognize and apply strategic steps in building success  with an organization ’s human 
resources . 
 
 
VI. Course Topics  
Include (but not limited to):  
Mission/values of the organization and its relationship to HRM, staffing, employee training/development, 
compensation, and societal responsibility of the organization.  
 
 
VII. Textbook 
Lussier, Robert N. and Hendon, John R. (2020) Fundamentals of Human Resource Management (2nd 
edition). Canada: Sage.  
 
 
VIII. Reading Assignments  
 
  
Parts (weeks of Course)  Chapters  Topics  
Part One: weeks 1 -3 1, 2, and 3  HRM Environment : Disciplines , 
responsibilities, trends  and issues   
Part Two: weeks  5-7 4, 5, and 6  Staffing : Strategy,  culture, structure , 
management systems  
Part Three: weeks 8 -10 7, 8, and 9  Developing and Managing : Legal 
environment  
Part Four: weeks 1 1 – 12 
                    10, 11 and 1 2 
(portion of 13)  Compensation , and Workplace Safety, 
Health and Diversity  
 
 
IX. Basis for Final Grade 
 
Assessment Item  % of Grade  Points  
Attendance/Participation  20% 100 
Quiz  (2): on Canvas  20% 100 
Mid-term Exam : on Canvas  20% 100 
Team  Assignment  40% 225 
Total  100%  525  
 
 
Grading Scale  
A+ 509 - 525 Exceptional Performance  
A 
A- 487 – 508 
471 - 486 Superior Performance  
B+ 
B 
B- 455 - 470 
434 - 454 
420 - 433  
Above Average Performance  
C+ 
C 403 - 419 
366 - 402 Average Performance  
D 315 - 365 Below Average Performance  
F < 315 Failure  
 
 
X. Course Assessment Types 
 
 
Attendance Participation  (20%): Your active participation is vital to the learning process. 
However, you cannot par ticipate if you are not in class. Participation will include  team 
activity and general classroom involvement  that will consist of graded response to timed 
questions  via SQUARECAP .  
 
 
Quiz (20%): There will be 2 quizzes (50 points each) based on the classroom discussions  and 
reading  content to ensure you are aware of the main takeaways from the lectures/sessions . 
These quizzes will be administered on Ca nvas.  
 
Mid-term Exam  (20%) There will be a n assignment or exam to demonstrate and measure 
student learning at the mid -point of the course.  Mid-term will be administered on Canvas.  
 
Team  Assignment  (40%): There will be a final assessment in the form of a paper .  
 
 
XI. Course Policies on Grades 
 
Grades of Incomplete: 
The current university policy concerning incomp lete grades will be followed in this course. 
Incomp lete grades are given only in situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a 
stud ent from comp leting the course and the remaining work can be comp leted the nex t 
semester. Your instructor is the final autho rity on whether you qualify for an incomp lete. 
Incomp lete work must  be finished by the end of the subs equent semester or the “I” will 
autom atically be recorded as an “F” on your transcript. 
XII. Course Policies on Student Expectations 
Disability Access: 
Stud ents in need of academic accommod ations for a disability m ay consu lt with Stud ents with 
Disabilities Services (http://sds.usf.edu/) to arrange appropriate accomm odations.  Stud ents are 
required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting any accommod ation . 
 
 
Religious Observances: 
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent form the online environm ent for more 
than 1 week due to a major religious observance must  provide notice of the date(s) to the 
instructor, in writing, by the second week of the course. 
 
  
 
Academic Conduct: 
Academic Integrity of Stud ents policies for USF are listed below (please be aware that policies 
for undergraduate and graduate stud ents differ). 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.027.pdf 
 
 
Disruption of the Academic Process 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.025.pdf 
 
Gender-Based Crimes: 
Educators must  report incidents of gender-based crimes including sexual assault, sexual 
harassment, stalking, dating violence and dom estic violence. If a stud ent discloses in class, in 
papers, or to an instructor, the instructor is required by law to report the disclosure. The Center 
for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention (813-974-5757 ) is a confidential resource where 
you can talk about  such situations and receive assistance in confidence. Additional confidential 
resources on campus  are: the Couns eling Center (813-974-2831 ) and Stud ent Health Services 
(813-974-2331 ). 
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures 
http://www. ugs.usf.edu/policy/Stud entAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf 
 
Emergency Procedures: 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for the USF campus  to susp end normal 
operations.  During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods  
that include but are not limited to the learning management system (Canvas), email and/or 
  alternative schedule. It is the respons ibility of the stud ent to mon itor their courses for specific      
  comm unication, and the main USF, College and department websites, emails and MoBll    
  messages for impo rtant general information. 
 
 
Netiquette Guidelines: 
 
General Comm unication Guidelines 
 
 
1. Act professionally in the way you comm unicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do on a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be 
const ructive when explaining your views about  points you may not agree 
with. 
 
 
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic background s, political and religious beliefs or other 
general differences. 
 
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an e mail or post ing a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thou ghtful. Avoid the use 
of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shout ing, and it is more difficult to read. 
 
4. Keep your comm unications focused and stay on  topic. Comp lete your ideas before changing the 
subject. By keeping the m essage on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for. 
 
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor  or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone  of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
 
Email Guidelines: 
 
1. Please allow 24 hours for a response  M-F or 48 hour  response  on weekends and holidays. If I am 
not able to get an answer to you within that timeframe, I will at least acknowledge your email. 
That said – if you do not hear from me within 24 hours/48 hours please feel free to contact me a 
second time. 
2. All emails to have the  course ID, Semester Offered as well as som ething to summ arize the 
content. Example: MAN6055 F2018 – Grade review or MAN6055 F2018 – Exam concern 
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues shou ld be directly comm unicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore any issues shou ld not be posted 
there. 
 
XIII. Help Resources 
 
Canvas Technical Support: Include information where stud ents can find technical suppo rt. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page in the hom epage of your canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa, or emailing help@usf.edu. 
 
XIV. Covid -19 Procedures  
All students  must comply  with university  policies  and posted  signs regarding  COVID -19 mitigation  
measures,  including  wearing  face coverings  and maintaining  social  distancing  during  in-person  
classes.   Failure  to do so may result  in dismissal  from class,  referral  to the Office of Student  
Conduct  and Ethical  Development,  and possible  removal  from campus.  
Additional  details  are available  on the University’s  Core Syllabus  Policy  Statements  
page:  https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
 
XV. Class  Recording  
Classes  will be recorded  and streamed  online.  Student’s  voice and video  will be included  in the 
class recording.  It is the student’s  responsibility  to make  sure the privacy  of their surroundings  
and background  is maintained.  
 
 
XVI. Online  Proctoring  
Quizzes  and examinations  will be conducted  using  online  proctoring  tools.  Keeping  the audio  and 
video  (microphone  and camera)  on during  such exams and quizzes  is a must.  If the student  is not 
willing  to use these,  the student  is asked  not to register  for this course.  Any student  may elect to 
drop or withdraw  from this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.  Online  exams  and 
quizzes  within  this course  may require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to 
have a webcam  (USB or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  or quiz. Students  
understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the student  and that 
recordings  from any private  residence  must be done with the permission  of any person  residing  in 
the residence.  To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for the 
testing.  The University  library  and other academic  sites at the University  offer secure  private  
settings  for recordings,  and students  with concerns  may discuss  the location  of an appropriate  
space  for the recordings  with their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must ensure  that any 
recordings  do not invade  any third-party privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for 
violations  of any third-party privacy  concerns.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior to taking  
the proctored  exam.  For additional  information  about  online  proctoring  you can visit the online  
proctoring  student  FAQ at http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -
services/online -proctoring.aspx  
 
 