 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
MAN6289:  Organizational Change and Development  
School of In formation Sys tems and Management  
Muma College of Business, University of South Florida 
 
 
Semester: Spring  2023  
Class Meeting Time: 6: 30-10:15 pm Thurs days (from Feb. 7  to May 5 , 202 2)  
Class Meeting Location: BSN 120 
Instructor: Prof. Terry A. Boyd  
Office Location: BSN 3516  
Office Hours: 5:00 – 6:00PM Mon days (from Feb 7  to May 5 , 202 2) or by appointment  
Email: boyd56@usf.edu   
 
 
 
 
I. Welcome Message 
Welcome  to Organizational Change  and Development . This course will introduce you to 
concepts found  in the organizational change and development  literature that will help you as 
you progress in your career. This course will help you to take the academic concepts and 
apply them to day to day situations. The course will be taught from the perspective that you 
are or will som eday be a leader in an organization. Students must be present for first class in 
accord ance with the attendance policy . Any student marked absent will be dropped from 
the class.  
 
 
II. Course Overview/Description 
This course is designed to assist your learning of change and development concepts and 
processes to improve performance. An examination of the theory and practice of change 
management, including the study of organization renewal, overcoming resistance to change, 
employee empowerment, developing high performance teams, and organi zational strategic 
development. Various types of learning techniques such as group work, case studies, simulation 
exercises and other activities will be engaged while learning the theories that construct the 
Organization  Change/Development  body of knowledg e. The course is designed into quarters 
where a portion of a team project will be due at the end of each these quarters. Readings and 
class exercises will reflect the major topic of each of these quarters as well.  Students are 
required to have a laptop for classroom use, especially for taking quizzes on Canvas . 
 
III. Learning Goals  
1. Comprehend and explain major concepts, and principles of organizational 
development and change processes    
2. Analyze issues of Organizational Change and Development using appropriate 
methods  
3. Apply theories, concepts, techniques, and principles of organization  change  
correctly in new and/or cha llenging situations  
4. Create and evaluate change solutions based on the field of knowledge and evi dence  
from successful practice . 
 
 
IV. Course Objectives 
At the end of this course stud ents shou ld be able to: 
1. Demonstrate knowledge  of organizational change/ development processes that are 
unique to this field of study.  
2. Analyze when change is needed and target strateg ies for implementing  techniques  for 
change success . 
3. Demonstrate  knowledge of  the individual  and group methods of coping with and 
adapting to change . 
4. Recognize and apply strategic steps in building success in an organizational structure.  
 
 
V. Course Topics  
Include (but not limited to):  
Attitudes, culture, cognitions/decision -making, conflict management, ethics, leadership, motivation, 
empower ment  and influence, stress, teamwork, traits  
 
 
VI. Textbook 
Brown, Donal d (201 1) An Experiential Approach to Organizational Development  (8th edition). Boston : 
Prentice Hall . 
 
 
VII. Reading Assignments  
                 
Quarter  Chapters  Topics  
One 1 - 3 Anticipating Change: changing culture ; 
challenges of change; and reinventing 
the organization . 
   
Two  4 - 6 Understanding the Organization  
Development Process: diagnostic 
process; overcoming resistance to 
change; and role/style of the OD 
practitioner  
   
Three  9 and 1 0 Developing Excellence in Individuals and 
Teams: intervention strategies; 
employee empowerment ; team 
development ; and goal setting  for 
effectiveness  
   
Four   Final Project preparation and 
presentation.  
 
 
 
VIII. Basis for Final Grade 
 
Assessment Item  % of Grade  Points  
   
Quiz  (2): on Canvas  25% 100 
Mid-term Exam : on Canvas  20% 75 
Team  Assignment  55% 225 
Total  100%  400 
  
 
 
 
Grading Scale  
A+ 388 - 400 Exceptional Performance  
A 
A- 372 - 387 
360 - 371 Superior Performance  
B+ 
B 
B- 348 - 359 
332 - 347 
320 - 331  
Above Average Performance  
C+ 
C 308 - 319 
280 - 307 Average Performance  
D 240 - 279 Below Average Performance  
F < 240 Failure  
 
 
IX. Course Assessment Types 
 
 
 
Quiz (25%): There will be 2 quizzes (50 points each) based on the classroom discussions  and 
reading  content to ensure you are aware of the main takeaways from the lectures/sessions . 
These quizzes will be administered on Ca nvas  in class . 
 
Mid-term Exam  (20%) There will be a n exam to demonstrate and measure student learning at 
the mid -point of the course.  Mid-term will be administered on Canvas  in class . 
 
Team  Assignment  (55%): There will be a final assessment in the form of a paper . This 
assignment will be delivered in four parts.  
 
 
X. Course Policies on Grades 
 
Grades of Incomplete: 
The current university policy concerning incomp lete grades will be followed in this course. 
Incomp lete grades are given only in situations where unexpected emergencies prevent a 
stud ent from comp leting the course and the remaining work can be comp leted the nex t 
semester. Your instructor is the final autho rity on whether you qualify for an incomp lete. 
Incomp lete work must  be finished by the end of the subs equent semester or the “I” will 
autom atically be recorded as an “F” on your transcript. 
XI. Course Policies on Student Expectations 
Disability Access: 
Stud ents in need of academic accommod ations for a disability m ay consu lt with Stud ents with 
Disabilities Services (http://sds.usf.edu/) to arrange appropriate accomm odations.  Stud ents are 
required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting any accommod ation . 
 
 
Religious Observances: 
Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent form the online environm ent for more 
than 1 week due to a major religious observance must  provide notice of the date(s) to the 
instructor, in writing, by the second week of the course. 
 
Academic Conduct: 
Academic Integrity of Stud ents policies for USF are listed below (please be aware that policies 
for undergraduate and graduate stud ents differ). 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.027.pdf  
 
Disruption of the Academic Process 
http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/regulations/pdfs/regulation-usf3.025.pdf 
 
Gender-Based Crimes: 
Educators must  report incidents of gender-based crimes including sexual assault, sexual 
harassment, stalking, dating violence and dom estic violence. If a stud ent discloses in class, in 
papers, or to an instructor, the instructor is required by law to report the disclosure. The Center 
for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention (813-974-5757 ) is a confidential resource where 
you can talk about  such situations and receive assistance in confidence. Additional confidential 
resources on campus  are: the Couns eling Center (813-974-2831 ) and Stud ent Health Services 
(813-974-2331 ). 
 
Student Academic Grievance Procedures 
http://www. ugs.usf.edu/policy/Stud entAcademicGrievanceProcedures.pdf 
 
Emergency Procedures: 
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for the USF campus  to susp end normal 
operations.  During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods  
that include but are not limited to the learning management system (Canvas), email and/or 
  alternative schedule. It is the respons ibility of the stud ent to mon itor their courses for specific      
  comm unication, and the main USF, College and department websites, emails and MoBll    
  messages for impo rtant general information. 
 
 
Netiquette Guidelines: 
 
General Comm unication Guidelines 
 
 
1. Act professionally in the way you comm unicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do on a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be 
const ructive when explaining your views about  points you may not agree 
with. 
 
 
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic background s, political and religious beliefs or other 
general differences. 
 
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an e mail or post ing a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thou ghtful. Avoid the use 
of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shout ing, and it is more difficult to read. 
 
4. Keep your comm unications focused and stay on  topic. Comp lete your ideas before changing the 
subject. By keeping the m essage on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for. 
 
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor  or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone  of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Email Guidelines: 
 
1. Please allow 24 hours for a response  M-F or 48 hour  response  on weekends and holidays. If I am 
not able to get an answer to you within that timeframe, I will at least acknowledge your email. 
That said – if you do not hear from me within 24 hours/48 hours please feel free to contact me a 
second time. 
2. All emails to have the  course ID, Semester Offered as well as som ething to summ arize the 
content. Example: MAN6055 F2018 – Grade review or MAN6055 F2018 – Exam concern 
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues shou ld be directly comm unicated to the instructor 
via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore any issues shou ld not be posted 
there. 
 
XII. Help Resources 
 
Canvas Technical Support: Include information where stud ents can find technical suppo rt. 
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and 
video resources in the “Canvas Help” page in the hom epage of your canvas course. You can also 
contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa, or emailing help@usf.edu. 
 
XIII. University Policies  
 
2021  Fall COVID -19 Mitigation  Expectations  
All students  and instructors  are expected  to wear  face coverings,  at all times,  during  in-
person  classes.  Per guidance from the CDC and Board of Governors,  we expect  that all 
members  of our community  will wear  a mask  on campus,  vaccinated  or unvaccinated.  This 
is especially important while indoors, in crowded outdoor settings, if you have a weakened 
immune system or an underlying medical condition. Masks will be made available to anyone who 
needs one.  
USF strongly  urges  all community  members  to get fully vaccinated.  Vaccines are our most 
reliable means of preventing the spread of COVID -19. The vaccine is free, readily available, and 
all of USF’s faculty, staff, and students are of age to be eligible for the vaccine; theref ore, if 
someone chooses not to be vaccinated, they are assuming significant risk, including isolation and 
quarantine. Vaccines are also the most reliable way to ensure that students do not face any 
disruption to their studies or social activities, and facu lty and staff do not face disruption to their 
teaching, research, or university work.  
It is critically important that individuals who feel unwell stay home and contact Student Health 
Services or their primary care provider for medical advice. Report all po ssible exposures 
to assessCOVID@usf.edu . 
Students  in in-person  classes  may be assigned  to the same  seat for the duration  of the Fall 
semester.  This can assist with exposure assessments should they be nece ssary.   
A student  who will be absent  from  an in-person  class  (due  to isolation,  quarantine  or other  
reason)  must  notify  the instructor  immediately  for guidance  on academic  continuity  and 
student  learning.  
Instructors  may schedule  remote  office  hours  during  the Fall 2021  semester.  
In-person  classes  may be asked  (by USF leadership  or the COVID -19 team)  to transition  to 
temporary  remote  instruction  at any point  in the Fall semester.  
Academic  Integrity  
Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida’s commitment to the 
academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is 
grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, a nd fairness. Broadly 
defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic 
misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in  USF Regulation  
3.027 . 
 
Academic  Grievance  Procedure  
The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking 
courses  at the University of South Florida an opportunity for objective review of facts and events 
pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a 
specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s a cademic record or status has 
violated published policies and procedures, or has been applied to the grievant in a manner 
different from that used for other students.  
 
Disability  Access  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student s Accessibility  Services 
(SAS) (SVC 1133) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to 
notify instructors of accommodation needs at least five (5) business days prior to needing the 
accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany  this request. Please visit 
the Student  Accessibility  Services  website  for more information.  
 
Disruption  to Academic  Progress  
Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the 
academic process ( USF Regulation  3.025 ) is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a 
student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the 
instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy 
distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 
discussion, or  general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well -
being of self or other persons.  
 
Food  and Housing  Insecurity  
We recognize that student facing financial difficulty in securing a stable place to live and/or in 
affordin g sufficient groceries may be at risk of these financial issues affecting their performance in 
classes. Students with these needs are urged to contact Feed -A-Bull 
(feedabull@usf.edu  or their  website ), or Student Outreach and Support 
(socat@usf.edu  or their  website ).  
 
Intellectual  Freedom  and Viewpoint  Diversity  Act (House  Bill 233)  
Preliminary  Guidance  Document  
Students may, without prior notice, record video or audio of a class lecture for a class in which the 
student is enrolled for their own personal, educational use. A class lecture is defined as a formal 
or methodical oral presentation as part of a university course intended to present information or 
teach enrolled students about a particular subject. Recording class activities other than class 
lectures, including but not limited to lab sessions, student presentations (wheth er individually or 
part of a group), class discussion, clinical presentations such as patient history, academic 
exercises involving student participation, test or examination administrations, field trips, private 
conversations between students in the class  or between a student and the faculty member is 
prohibited. Recordings may not be used as a substitute for class participation and class 
attendance and may not be published or shared without the written consent of the faculty 
member. Failure to adhere to t hese requirements may constitute a violation of the  USF Student  
Conduct  Code .  
 
Religious  Observances  
All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their rel igious 
observances, practices and beliefs ( USF Policy  10-045). The University of South Florida, through its faculty, will make every attempt to schedule required classes and examinations  in view of 
customarily observed religious holidays of those religious groups or communities comprising 
USF’s constituency. Students are expected to attend classes and take examinations as 
determined by the university. No student shall be compelled to atte nd class or sit for an 
examination at a day or time prohibited by his or her religious belief. However, students should 
review the course requirements and meeting days and times to avoid foreseeable conflicts, as 
excessive absences in a given term may prev ent a student from completing the academic 
requirements of a specific course. Students are expected to notify their instructors at the 
beginning of each academic term if they intend to be absent for a class or announced 
examination, in accordance with this  Policy.  
 
Sexual  Misconduct  / Sexual  Harassment  
USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual 
harassment and sexual violence ( USF Policy  0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy is a 
confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based 
crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential 
resource can help yo u without having to report your situation to the  Title IX Office unless you 
request that they make a report. Contact the USF  Center  for Victim  Advocacy : 813 -974-5757. 
Please b e aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF Policy, educators must report 
incidents of sexual harassment and gender -based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations personally to an educator, 
he or she is required to report it to the Title IX Office. For more information about Title IX, a full list 
of resources, or to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or 
stalking visit:  usf.edu/title -ix 
 
Statement  of Academic  Continuity  
In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During 
this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction thr ough methods that include, but are 
not limited to: Canvas, Teams, email messaging, and/or an alternate schedule. It is the 
responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas for each class for course -specific 
communication, and the USF, College, and Depar tment websites, emails, 
and ALERTUSF  messages for important general information ( USF Policy  6-010). 
 
 