 
 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT , MAN 3025 
Syllabus  
 
      
Instructor:  Dr. Zheng  Chen   Office Hours :  Thursday s 3:30 -4:30 &  
By Appointment  
Office:  LPH427      
Office Phone:  (727) 873 -4087  Office      
Email:  zhengch en@ usf.edu 
(This  is the best way to  
reach  me)     
Classroom:       
 
Prerequisite  
 
Junior Standing . 
 
Course Desc ription:  
The class will examine various factors impacting the manager’s role, including intrapersonal, 
interpersonal, group and team dynamics, in addition to environ mental factors ( both stakeholder 
and societal) influencing the management task. This class will also acquaint students with the 
role of management as it relates to overall organizational effectiveness and how the various 
business func tions are impacted. Ad ditionally, stud ents will explore the various concepts and 
their application to the management role in business.  
 
Course Objective(s):   
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1) Describe and discuss the basic funct ions of management.  
2) Recognize and discuss managerial ethi cs and social responsibility.  
3) Describe and explain the conceptual skills of strategic planning.  
4) Explain and apply concepts of motivation in organizations.  
5) Explain and apply organizati onal communication and  negotiation techniques.  
6) Discuss the us e of groups and teams in organizations.  
7) Build self -awareness of values, beliefs, and managerial style  
 
Business Pro gram Learning  Goals (Skill(s) and Perspectives) Addressed in This Course:  
 
Written  and 
Oral 
Com municati
on Information  
Technology 
Skills  Inno vation 
and Critical  
Thinking Ethical 
and 
Sustainabili
ty Multicultural 
Competence  
3(a) 5(b) 1(c) 2(d) 2(e) 
 
  (a) In -class discussions and group presentation.  
(b) PowerPoint presentation a nd conducting research  for group project.  
(c) Term project . 
(d) Chapter  2 and article readi ngs. 
      (e)Chapter  3 and article  readin gs. 
 
 
Require d/Supplementary Text(s):  
 
TEXT : Management  by Hitt/Black/ Porter   
Follett  Access  ebook:   3e ISBN  9780133468991    
Print lose leaf:  ISBN 978013255335 3 
 
Determ ination of Final Grade:  
 
Quizzes  20% 
Exam 1  35% 
Exam 2  35% 
Participation   10%  
 
 
Grade Categorie s and Weights  (No rounding) : 
 
Final class grade cuto ffs: 
A: 100% to  94%  C+: 79.99% to  76%  
A-: 93.99%  to 90%  C: 75.99% to  73% 
B+: 89.99%  to 86%  C- : 72.99% to  70%  
B: 85.99% to  83%  D+: 69.99% to  66%  
B- : 82.99%  to 80%  D: 65.99% to  60%  
F: 60% to 0%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
COURSE SCHEDULE * 
Due Da tes TOPIC  Assignment Due /notes  
1/10 Intro &  Chapter 1 management   Attenda nce 
1/13 Drop/Add Deadline   
1/17 Chapter 2 Ethics  Online Quiz  
1/17 Chapter 2 Ethics  F2F 
1/24  Chapter 3  International Managem ent Online Quiz  
1/24  Chapter 3  International Managem ent F2F 
1/31  Chapter 4  Strategic Management  Online Quiz  
1/31  Chapter 4  Strateg ic Management  F2F 
2/7 Chapter 8 Leaders hip Online Quiz  
2/7 Chapter 8 Leadership  F2F 
2/14  Chapter 6  Structure & Design  online  Quiz  
2/14  Chapter 6  Structure & Design  F2F Guest sp eaker -Moheet M.  
2/21 Chapter 7 HR  online  Quiz  
2/21  Chapter 7  HR F2F Gues t speaker -Matt R.  
2/28  Chapter 5 Planning  online  Quiz  
2/28  Chapter 5 Planning  F2F Guest Sp eaker-Barry S.  
 
3/7 Reading Week  Reading Week  
3/14 Exam 1 Exam 1 DUE  
3/21  Spring Break   
3/25 Last Day to Wit hdraw from  Cours e  
3/28 Chapter  9 Motiva tion Online Quiz 
3/28 Chap ter 9 Motiva tion F2F 
4/4 Chap ter 10 Teams  Online Quiz  
4/4 Chap ter 10 Teams  F2F 
4/11 Chapter 11 Communication& Negotiation  Online Quiz  
4/11 Chapter 11 Communication& Negotiation  F2F 
4/18  Chapter 12 Decision Making  Online Quiz  
4/18 Chapter  12 Decision M aking  F2F 
4/25  Exam 2 Reading Week -exam free week   
5/2 Exam 2  Exam 2 DUE  
 
*subject to change  
Course Deliver y:  
A “flipped  class” format  will be used for this course. This means that the lecture is 
delivered via video outside of class and in class we fo cus on application activities. For most 
classes, prior to coming to class, you will watch a video lecture, do some reading, and take a quiz on these assigned activities. In class, we  will engage in other activities, such as 
hands -on experimen t demonstratio ns, individual or small -group problem solving, or 
discussion of an assigned reading. When watching lectures outside of class, take notes as 
you normally wo uld during a lecture . When doing your pre -class activities, make note of 
any questions you have and b e sure to bring these up in class. Note that this cl ass format 
requires you to do substantial work in preparation for each class meeting. This work will 
help your learning . 
Course Policies and Expectations  
Succ essful completion of this cours e will require that you pr epare fo r class  on a 
consistent basis . It is expe cted that you read all chapters in the r equired te xtbook listed 
on the course s chedule.  
 
All assignments must be submitted through Canvas by each week  by due date  (11:59M, 
US Easter n Time). Due dates will be clearly posted on e ach assignment.  Please do not  
email your assignments. What you submit  through Canvas is wha t will  be graded,  even 
if you submitted nothing at all or only a partial assignment. Please doub le check your 
work befo re submission . No late ass ignment will be acce pted. There are  no exceptions  
to this policy. Please submit early to avoid problems.  
Chapter Quiz zes: You will be  required to complete a quiz for each m odule. Each quiz 
gene rally c onsists of 5-10 multiple choice  questions. Ea ch quiz covers all textbook and 
module material. You will have 15 minutes to complete  each quiz . The purpose of the 
quizzes is t o prepare you for the exams. You will be able to see th e correct answers the  
next m orning @ 8  am after th e quizzes  are due. Each  quiz covers all module and textbook 
material.  
 
Participation & Etiquette: People learn best w hen they are active (not passive). Your 
active participation is essential to this class. Participation is more than just attending class 
and asking an occasional question. Full participation consists of demonstrating that you 
are prepared for each class, a sking thoughtful questions that help you and yo ur peers 
learn, responding respectfully to peers, engaging productively in all class exercises, and 
posting comment s on the learning blogs of other students.  
 
Grade Performance Criteria  
A Student frequently volunteers with answers and with questions; student contributions 
reflect he/she did the assigned reading; arrived to class on time; exhibited only positive 
participation behaviors (asking clarifying questions, bringing up relevant exa mples, 
making meaningful contributions that reflect a careful reading of the assignments)  
B Student volunteers, but not frequently; student contributions reflect he/she  did the 
assig ned reading; arrived to class on time; exhibited only positive participati on behaviors 
(asking clarifying questions, bringing up relevant examples, making meaningful 
contributions that reflect a careful reading of the assignments)  
C Student does not volun teer, but only responds when called on; student contributions 
suggest he/sh e did not do the assigned reading; arrived late to class, or exhibited negative 
participation behaviors such as inappropriate use of technology, off -topic talking with  
neighbors, or  sleeping  D Student does not volunteer and does not respond when called on,  or arrived late to 
class, or exhibited negative participation behaviors such as inappropriate use of 
technology, off -topic talking with neighbors, or sleeping  
F Stu dent did not a ttend class.  
Exams  
2 exams will be given, as indica ted on the attached schedule. Exa ms are no t 
comprehensive, and the study guides are posted on Canv as. Each  exam will consist of 
50 multiple -choice questions, with a 1.5-hour limit. Please mak e sure you sub mit wi thin 
the limit. Exams will be OPEN BOOK ONLY ( i.e., no other material allow ed) and will 
be remotely proctored. Answ ers to the ex ams will not be a vailab le for viewing du e to 
ensure academic integrity. You may make an appointment to go ov er your ex am. 
 
Make-up exams ca nnot be give n without  clear documentation of the circumstances that 
warrant m issing an exam. Unfortunate ly, I cannot accept un document ed "in ternet 
problems",  "computer crashes", etc. for failure to complet e an exam within the  allotted 
time period. Please u nderstand th at if you  choo se to use your home, work, or any other 
computer, y ou do so at your own risk. If you feel t hat your computer  may b e unstable, 
have a backup computer ready or, better yet, take the  exam in a USF compu ter lab. T he 
only types of comp uter problem s for whi ch I will consider making an exception are: 
USF computer  problems (which must be do cumented by a  USF syst em admin istrat or) 
or well -docum ented and widespread power failures in St. Peter sburg (such as those  
caused by  a hurricane). Reques ts concernin g alterna tive or longer exam times or 
alternative exam dates will  not be granted unless you provide prope r documen tation 
from th e University.  
 
Proctoring E xams  
All students must review the syllabus and the requir ements includi ng the online ter ms 
and video testing requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. 
Enrollment in the course is an a greement to abide  by an d accept all term s.  Any student 
may elect to drop or withdraw from this course befor e the end of t he drop/add perio d. 
  
Online exams and  quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will be required to have a webcam (USB o r internal) with a microphone when 
taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that t his remote rec ording device is 
purchased and control led by the student and that recordings from any private residence 
must be done with the permissi on of any person residi ng in the residen ce. To avoid any 
concerns in this regard, students should select pri vate spaces fo r the testing.  The 
University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings 
for recordings and stud ents with concern s may discuss location of an appropriate space 
for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.   Students must ensure that any 
recordings d o not invade any third party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and 
liability for viol ations of any thi rd par ty privacy concer ns.  Setup information will be 
provided prior to taking the proctore d exam. For ad ditional informat ion about online 
proctoring you can visit the  online proctoring student FAQ . 
  
 Others  
Recording  of Lec ture s and Copyri ghts: 
All unau thorized rec ordings of class are prohibited. Recor dings that accomm odate ind ividu al 
stude nt needs must be approved  in adv ance and may be used for  personal use during the 
semester only; redi stribution  is pr ohib ited. 
 
University  Assessm ent 
You should be awar e that some of th e work you complete this semester  will be used for  
purposes  other  than ca lculating your final cou rse grad e. More speci fically, d ifferent types of 
assessments are required f or us to m aintai n ou r accredit ation a s a univ ersity a nd/or as a 
college of busi ness.  
Most of these assessment s are do ne as part of the  course a nd wil l requir e no additional work 
from you as  a stude nt. If you have  any questions or concerns about this please  let me kn ow. 
 
CELL PHO NES/PAG ERS: If you bring a cel l phone, pager  or any othe r com munication 
device to  class,  pleas e be sure  to turn  it off and do not use it in the classroom.  These 
devic es are not to be used d uring an  exam.  
 
End of Semester Student Eval uations:   
All cl asse s at USF m ake use  of an o nline sy stem for stude nts to pr ovide fe edback to the 
University regardin g the course. The se survey s will  be made  available at the end of  the 
semester, and th e Universi ty will notify you by email when the respons e window o pens. Your  
participa tion is  highly encourag ed and valued.   
 
Late W ork Policy: No late assignments are accep ted f or this  cour se. 
 
Extra Cred it Polic y: There will be no extr a credit  assignm ents for this c ourse.  
 
INCOMPLETE GRADES : An “I” grade may be given t o an u nder graduate s tudent only  whe n a smal l 
portion of t he student’s  work  (normally 30% or less) is incomp lete due to circu mstances beyond  
the con trol of the student and only whe n a stud ent i s otherwis e earning a passing grade.  “I” 
grades are t o be used only i n em ergency si tuation s and cannot to be used as a m eans of 
avoi ding a poor grade. Normally these are only for medical emergenci es and  require  a signed 
letter from a medical professional that the s tudent was prevented from attending class. T he 
student  must petition the p rofesso r before the wee k of final exa ms for a gra de of  “I” to be 
given.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy :  
Make -up exams can not b e given without clear doc umentati on of t he circumstan ces that 
warrant missing an exam. U nfortunately, I cann ot accept undocu ment ed "intern et prob lems ", 
"computer  crashes", etc . for failur e to complete an exam within the allot ted time period. Please 
underst and that  if you choose to  use you r home,  work, or any  other comp uter, you do so at 
your own risk. If you fee l that you r comp uter  may be un stable,  have a backup c omputer ready 
or, better y et, take the exam in a USF computer la b. The only types  of compu ter p roblems for 
which I will consider  making  an exception  are: USF c omputer problems (which must be 
documented b y a USF sy stem a dmin istrator) or well-documented and widespread pow er failures in St. Petersburg (such as those cause d by a hurricane) . Request s con cerning alternative 
or lo nger exa m times  or alternati ve exam dat es will not be granted u nless you provide pr oper 
docum entati on from the Un iversit y. 
 
 
Final Exami nations Policy : All final exam s are to be scheduled in accordanc e with the 
Univer sity’s fi nal e xaminati on policy.  
 
 
Course Polic ies: Te chnology and Media 
 
Emai l: Please send all course related emails via  Canvas e mail. Emails will be answere d 
within 24 business hour s exc luding w eekends and holidays. For canvas /technolog y 
related issues , please c ontact USF's IT department at (813) 97 4-1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Canvas : This c ourse will  be of fered via USF' s learn ing management s ystem (LMS), Canvas. If yo u 
need help learning how to perform va rious tasks relat ed to thi s cou rse o r other courses being 
offere d in Ca nvas, please consult the  Canvas help guides. You may also contact US F's IT 
departmen t at (813) 974 -1222 o r help@ usf.edu. 
Online Courses may be subje ct to t he followin g: 
Electr onic Plagiari sm Detection:  Students ar e hereb y notified th at the inst ructor intends 
to use electronic plagiarism detection servic es in this cou rse. By registering for  and 
participa ting in this  course, students consent to their wo rk bein g sent to, analyzed by 
and stored  in any plagiarism detect ion service.  
Online  Courses ma y be subject to the following : 
Electronic Pl agiarism D etecti on: Students a re here by n otified that  the instructo r 
intends to  use electronic plagiarism detection service s in this c ourse. By  registering 
for and participating in this co urse, student s consent t o their work being sent 
to, analyzed by and stored in any pl agiarism detec tion se rvice. 
Online Pr octoring Sylla bus Statemen t: 
All students must review the sylla bus and  the requir ements in cludi ng the o nline 
terms and video tes ting re quiremen ts to  determine if they wish to  remain in the 
course. Enroll ment in th e cour se is an agree ment to  abide by and ac cept all terms . 
Any studen t ma y elect to drop or withdraw from this course  before  the end of th e 
drop/a dd period.  
Online exams a nd quiz zes within th is course m ay require online proctoring. Therefore, 
students will  be re quired to have  a webc am ( USB or inter nal) with a mi crophone whe n 
taking an exam or quiz. Students un derstan d that this  remote r ecord ing devi ce is 
purchased and contr olled b y the student  and that r ecordings from any private 
residence must be  done with  the p ermi ssion of a ny pers on residing in t he residence. To 
avoid any  concerns in this regard, students sh ould se lect privat e spaces for t he testi ng. 
The University librar y and o ther academic  sites at t he University offer secure private 
settings for record ings a nd students wi th conc erns  may discuss  location of a n appropriat e space for the recordings  with their  instru ctor or adv isor. Stu dents  must 
ensure that any recordings do not  invade any th ird party p rivacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liabil ity fo r violations o f any t hird party priva cy concerns.  Setup 
inform ation will be  provided prior to takin g the p roctored ex am. For a dditi onal 
information about online pro ctoring  you can visit the  onlin e proctoring student FAQ 
(Links to an  extern al site.) . 
 
USF  ST. PETERSBURG  POLIC IES 
 
HONOR SYSTEM : Under the US F Honor Syst em, each student is expected to obs erve complete 
honest y in all acade mic matt ers.  Violation of the Ho nor Sys tem will be referred to the Honor 
Council.  Note:  The following are  violation s of t he H onor Code:   Copyi ng another stude nt’s 
homework,  signing ano ther student’s name on the attendan ce roster, copying a nother gr oup’s  disk 
or written work, using anot her stu dent’s comput er disk to print out your assignment, copying 
another s tudent’s f ile on to your disk, and mis representing a r eason for a mi ssed exam.  Puni shment 
result in suspension or expulsion. See the U SFSP Policy on  Academi c Integrity of Students  at page 
51 of the fol lowing link s:  https://w ww.u sfsp.edu/catalog/files/2019/03/ FINAL-Catalog -2018 -
2019-w-updates -as-of-3-2019.pdf   (for undergrad uate)  
 
https://ww w.usfsp .edu /catalog/fil es/2018/08/201 8-19-Graduat e-Catalog.pdf   (for graduate)  
 
STUDEN TS W ITH DISABILIT IES: Plea se no tify you r instructor by the secon d class  meeting if you have a 
learning disability or require special assist ance with this c ours e.  Confid ential pers onal and 
learning assistan ce counselin g are made available to students th rough the Division o f Student  
Affairs.  Co ntact R. Barry McDowell, St. Pet ersburg Campu s: Student Life Center (SLC 1203) (727) 
873-4990, ( mcdo well@usfsp.e du) for more information.  Students who need extended time on  
exams need to infor m the Dis abilities Off ice at least seven (7) sc hool da ys (Monday-Friday) in 
advance of the scheduled exam, so that the Dis abilities Office  has adequate time to  inform me . 
 
COPYRIGHTS :  Stud ents who wis h to audiotape lectures can do so w ith direct permissio n from th e 
professor, but tapes and lectures ma y not b e sold. No vi deos or pho tos can be taken in the 
classroom!   
 
GRADE FORGIVENESS : Unde rgraduate grade forgi vene ss is limite d to three USF SP courses w ith no 
more than one repeat per cou rse.  Accounting maj ors can u se th e forgiv eness only once in upper 
level a ccounting cou rses. There  is NO grade forgiveness at the Graduate Lev el. 
 
S/U  GRADES :  This course cannot be taken on an S /U basis.  
 
WITHDRAWAL : No “W” grades can be obtai ned afte r the o fficial drop or w ithdrawal  date  (indica te 
date for each semester ). All students enro lled as of the withdrawal date  March  27, 202 1, will 
receive a let ter gr ade of A, B+, B, C, C+, C, D+, D or F . 
 
EMERGENCY P REPAREDNESS:   In the event of an emergenc y, it may  be necessary for  USF to 
suspen d norm al opera tions. During this time, U SF may opt to  continue d elivery of instruction 
through methods that include bu t are not limited to : Canva s, Elluminate, S kype, and emai l 
messaging and/or an alternate s chedule.  It is th e responsibility of the st udent  to mo nitor Canvas  site for each class f or course spe cific commu nication, and the main USF, College, and dep artment 
websites , em ails, and MoBull mess ages for imp ortant general  information . 
 
BOMB THREAT OR OTH ER DISRU PTION:  All scheduled clas ses will be he ld in an alter nate room in 
the ca se of a  bomb scare, fire alarm or other disruption. Students will gather ou tside of t he 
classroom buildin g at a designated area in the parking  lot so that  an alternative room may be 
announced.  
 
Supporting Crim e Victims  and Violen ce Again st Women Act (VAWA) : 
If yo u are the vic tim of a cr ime, USFSP is ready to assist you in the man ner that y ou det ermi ne is 
best  for yo u. Please know t hat, as a USF employee, I am obligated by Feder al law t o immedia tely 
report any i ncidents of se xual a ssault, dating & domestic v iolence , and stalkin g relayed t o me – 
including the victim’s name – to the USFSP Poli ce Dep artm ent and/or  the US FSP Dean of 
Stud ents. If you d esire confid entiality, there are campus a nd commun ity resources lis ted below  
that will respect that decision.   
 
Confident ial Resources  Non -Confid ential Resources  
USFSP Victim Advocacy Serv ices 
Avail able: 24hr s/7days  
Tel: 727-698-2079  USFSP P olice Departme nt 
Tel: 727 -873-4140 or  
USFSP W ellness Center (S LC 2000)  
M/T/W/F:  8am – 5pm 
Thurs: 9: 30am – 5pm 
Tel: 727 -873-4422 Dean of Students &  Director o f Residence Life & 
Housing : Dr. Jacob Diaz  
PNM 
Tel: 72 7-873-4823  
deanofstude nts@usfsp.edu   
Rape  Crisis Center of  Pinellas County  
Tel: 727 -530-7273 
PEMHS : 727 -541-4628  Pinellas County Sheriff 
Tel: 727-582-6200 or 911  
 
 St. Petersburg Police Department  
Tel: 727 -893-7780 o r 911 
 
If you ar e no t sure what to do, you are  strongly en couraged to contact t he USFSP  Victim 
Advocate to confid entially explo re you r option s including: Injunc tions &  Protective O rders on 
campus; Changes in Accommodations, Living Arra ngements, Class Sche dules, & T ranspor tation; 
Assistan ce with Academ ic Issues – missed classes, late assignme nts, etc.    
 
COVID S TATEME NT 
The he alth and safet y of students, faculty, staff and visitors on our campu ses is our top priority. 
In response to the current COVID -19 pan demic, the  USF commun ity will be working togeth er 
to suppor t compliance with recommended health a nd safety standar ds to opt imize the lear ning 
experience while minimizing h ealth risks.  The Con duct Expectations for all members of the  
community may be access ed at (Conduct Expected to Support U SF Health and Safety 
Standards ) with details provided below.   
Students and faculty w ill be gui ded by esta blished USF processes to e nsure the sa fest possible 
non-disruptive environme nt including the:  
(1) Academic Disru ption Regulation  which provides for an imme diate removal or 
restriction f rom a class room setting  with academic  sanctions a nd/or  (2) Student  Conduct Regulation  to address co nduct that is inconsi stent with the 
expectations as outlined below.  
1. Complete daily s creening a s requested .  Anyone ex periencing one  or more COV ID-
19 symptoms should not be on campus  or, if a residen t, should  not be outsid e their 
residence hall room and sh ould contact a medica l pro vider immediately and follow their 
guidance. Please inform your instr uctor prior  to the begi nning class if  your screen ing 
indicates the need for further eva luation and you w ill not b e in class.  
2. Wear face coverings .  All members of  the USF community ar e req uired to wear face 
coverings while in c lassrooms or any oth er shared space, incl uding specif ied public or 
common -use a reas where social distancing guideline s cannot be follo wed. See this link 
on How T o Make A F ace Mask . If you have to use a dispo sable face m ask, please 
discard it in a trash rece ptacle immediatel y after u se. 
3. Maintain s ocial distancing . All students, fa culty, staff and gues ts ar e required to 
maintain a safe distance from one another. So cial dista ncing is ma intained in all indoor 
and outdoor spa ces which are owned or controlled by U SF.  Stay at leas t 6 feet (about 2 
arms’  length) from other people, do not  gather in groups, st ay ou t of crowded places 
and avoid mass gath erings. See the CDC for inform ation on Social Distanc ing. Please 
sit in only desig nated areas  in class an d do not move chairs or de sks in classrooms or 
common  spaces.  
4. Practice good hand hygiene .  Individuals s hould wash their hands with soap a nd water 
for at least  20 seconds as often as possible or use pers onal hand sanitizers  containin g at 
least 60% alcohol.  Hand sanitize r stations a re available throughout the campus. If  you 
see one, use  it! See the CDC recomm endations on Hand  Hygiene . 
5. Disinfect your cla ssroom spa ce. Student s and facult y are responsi ble for disi nfecting 
areas within their workspaces  by cleaning thes e at the beginning and end of each class. 
This includes d esk tops, seats, and equipment used during class. Disinfectant su pplies 
will be provi ded. If pa per towels are used to disinfect, the y must be di scarded in a trash 
receptable immediat ely after use.  
 UNIVERSI TY LANGUAGE  
 
Academ ic Int egrity  
Academic integr ity is the foundati on of the University of South Florida System’s  commitment to 
the a cademic ho nesty and p erso nal integrity of its u niversity co mmunity. Academi c integrity is 
grou nded in certain fund amental v alues, which i nclud e hone sty, res pect, and fairn ess. Broadl y 
define d, academic honesty is the completion of all a cademic endeavors an d claims o f scholarly  
knowledge  as representati ve of one’s own efforts. The  final decision on an acade mic integrit y 
violati on and related  acad emic s anction at any USF Syst em institut ion shal l affect and be applied 
to the academic status  of the student thro ughout the  USF System , unless o therwise determi ned 
by the i ndependently acc redited institution . The pr ocess for fa culty rep orting of acad emic 
miscon duct, as  well as the st udent’s opt ions for  appeal, are outlined in detail in USF System 
Regulation 3.027 https:// www.usf.e du/undergrad/d ocume nts/ac ademic -policies/1academ ic-
integrit y-of-students.pdf. 
 
Disruption to Academic Progress  
Disruptive students in the aca demic setti ng h inder the educational process. Dis ruption of the 
academic process is defined as the act, words, or  general condu ct of  a stu dent in a classroom or 
other acade mic envi ronme nt which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs 
attention awa y from the  academic matter s at hand, s uch as noisy dis tractions, persiste nt, 
disrespectful or  abusive interruption o f lecture, exam, ac ademic discussi on, or gene ral 
Univ ersity operations, or (b) presents a danger to  the health, safety,  or well-being of sel f or 
other  persons. http: //reg ulatio nspolici es.usf.edu/regu lations/pdf s/regula tion-usf3.025.pdf  
 
Academic Grievance Procedu re 
The purpose of th ese proced ures is to prov ide al l undergraduate and graduate  students taking  
courses within the  Univers ity of South  Florida System an oppo rtuni ty for  objecti ve review of 
facts and eve nts pert inent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievan ce” is a 
claim that a  specific academic decisio n or action that affects tha t student’s academi c record  or 
status h as violat ed published p olicies and  procedu res, or has bee n applied t o the gr ievant in a 
manner different from that used fo r other students. USF Sy stem Pol icy 10 -002 
 
Sexual M isconduct / Se xual Harass ment  
USF is committed to providin g an env ironm ent free from sex discrimination, includi ng sexual 
harassment  and sexua l violence http:/ /regulationspo licies.usf. edu/poli cies-and-
proced ures/pdfs/p olicy -0-004.pdf (USF System Policy 0 -004). The USF Ce nter for Victim is a  
confident ial resourc e wh ere yo u can talk about  incidents o f sexual harassm ent and gender -
base d crimes  including s exual ass ault, stalking , and  domes tic/rela tionship violen ce. This 
confidenti al resource can help you without having to rep ort your situation t o either t he Office o f 
Student Rights and Respo nsibilities (OSSR) https: //www.usf.edu/s tudent-affairs/stud ent-rights -
responsibilities/   or the Office o f Diversity, Inclusi on, and Eq ual Opportu nity (DIEO ) 
https://www.usf .edu/div ersity/  , unless you  request that they make a  report.  Please be awar e 
that in c omplianc e with Title IX and under the USF System Polic y, educators must re port 
incid ents of sex ual harass ment and gender -based crimes  including sexua l assault, stalking , and 
domestic/relat ionship v iolence. If yo u dis close any of t hese situations  in class, in paper s, or to 
me personally, I am required to repor t it to OSSR or DIEO  for inves tigation. C onta ct the  USF Center for Victim Advoc acy and Violence  Prevention: (813) 974-5757  
https://www .usf.edu /student-affairs/victim -advocacy/ . 
 
Religious  Observances  
All st udents hav e a right t o expect t hat the Universi ty will reas onably accommoda te their 
religious observan ces, practic es and be liefs  http://re gulationspolicies.us f.edu/poli cies-and-
proced ures/p dfs/policy -10-045.pdf  (USF System Policy 10 -045). The USF Syst em, thro ugh its 
facu lty, will  make every at tempt  to sc hedule r equired classes  and examin ations i n view of 
customarily observed religious holid ays of those religio us groups or communit ies compri sing the 
USF Sys tem’s consti tuency. Students  are expected to at tend cla sses and tak e examina tions as 
deter mined  by th e USF Sy stem. No studen t shall be compelle d to attend class or sit for an 
examination at  a day or time prohi bited by h is or her r eligious b elief. However, students sho uld 
review the c ourse requirements and meet ing days and  times to  avoid foresee able confli cts, as 
excessive absen ces in a gi ven term  may prevent a student from completing the aca demic 
requirements o f a specif ic course. Stud ents a re expected to n otify their instructors at t he 
beginning of eac h academ ic term if t hey inten d to be absent  for a clas s or ann ounced 
examinat ion, in acc ordance with this Policy.  
 
Statement of Academic Conti nuity  
In the event of an emer gency, it m ay be nece ssary for USF to  suspend nor mal operations. During 
this time, U SF may o pt to contin ue delive ry of instruct ion t hrough  methods  that include, but are 
not limited  to: Learning Management System, online confer encing, email messag ing, and/o r an 
altern ate schedu le. It is the re sponsibility  of the student to monitor the Lear ning Man agement 
System for ea ch class for c ourse -speci fic comm unication, and the main US F, Colle ge, and 
Department websites, emails, and MoBul l messages for impor tant gener al informat ion (USF 
System Policy 6 -010)  http://r egulationspolic ies.usf.edu /policie s-and-procedures/pdfs/policy -6-
010.pdf . For a dditional guidance o n emergenc y protectiv e actions and hazards that  affect the 
University, plea se visit https: //www.usf.e du/admin istrative-services/emergency -management/  
 
 
 
 