 
 
MAN 4402 and MAN 6406 
EMPLOYMENT LAW FOR BUSINESS 
SPRING 2023 
Meeting Location: BSN 230 
 
Professor:  William Sheslow, Esq. 
Office:  TBD 
Office Hours:  By Appointment 
Email: sheslow@usf.edu  
Class Meeting Days: Thursdays 6:30 – 9:15pm  
COURSE DESCRIPTION: 
Welcome! The employment laws in the United States are designed to 
protect the employee, but they also provide clarity and direction for the 
employer. They are often changed to reflect recent events in society. There 
are laws and expectations that all employers should follow in the 
workplace. We will examine the role of federal and state laws covering 
employment practices, including discrimination and fair treatment, 
selection and termination, accommodations, tort liability, and privacy 
issues. 
Prerequisites: For MAN4402: MAN3025 with a minimum Grade of C . 
    For MAN 6406: None.  
 
NATURE OF THE COURSE: 
Americans spend more time working than they do with their families. They 
spend more hours preparing for work, at work, and thinking about work 
than possibly anything else.  
Both Federal and State Governments are powerful law making and 
enforcement bodies that can impact the average American’s life. But the 
Federal Government does not come close to exerting the type of control 
over a person as compared to what an employer does. This includes when 
someone starts and ends their day, what someone can wear on a daily basis, 
whether they have a name tag, drive a certain car, or van, what tools they 
use, or how they sound, and what they say, what they listen to and what 
they do not listen to, where they will sit, when break times are and for how 
long, or how often someone can use the bathroom or if they are allowed to 
use their phone (and when they leave the workplace what they do with their 
social media). 
With people spending so much time at work, and working under the 
conditions determined by their employer, it should be no surprise to learn 
that employment law is the most litigated area in the field of law.  
The employee/employer relationship is perhaps the most critical non-
familial relationship in American life. Every working American depends on 
a good job to make ends meet, but also for dignity, and in many cases their 
identity.  
The other side of that coin is that for the Employer, and the workers who 
depend on that employer, the productivity and success of that business are 
a matter of life and death. Businesses need to succeed, need to thrive, and 
need to grow. Employees depend on the success of the company they work 
for and do not want it to fail.  
There is a symbiotic nature to the workplace in America. For the employer, 
staying in business, staying productive, and making money is critical.  
Getting bogged down in a lawsuit can be catastrophic and lead to the actual 
collapse of a company and a way of life.  That is why Employment law is the best course you will take because 
employment laws are for all the marbles. There are no half measures, and 
participation trophies. Someone wins and someone loses.  An employer 
threatened with a lawsuit wants to know the right answers only. An 
employee terminated for an unlawful reason wants to win and regain their 
lost wages, and loss of self. These are the battlegrounds of the workplace 
and very often they play out in courtrooms across the country.  
Attorneys may fight over whether an action, or law suit is valid, meritorious 
or if the theory is viable. Managers and Human Resource professionals 
should not.  The job of the Management professional is to assure that the 
organization’s policies and procedures comply with all relevant laws.   
An effective attorney and an effective Management professional will have 
the same goal:  to keep the employer out of court.   
Employment law is in a sense about protection. We will learn about a 
variety of protected classes of people, groups, and actions that individuals 
take and the protections they are afforded.  
You will see that employment laws are responses to problems in society to 
grant access, promotion, and inclusion to various peoples and groups. This 
includes systematic egregious abuse of employees by employers to the 
detriment of society and the worker.  The counterbalance is that the 
employer needs to be efficient, productive, and employ qualified 
individuals.  
Are all jobs created equal? Are all employers required to treat every 
applicant the same? Are there certain jobs that only some people can do? 
Does government create more problems for business by trying to 
micromanage the workplace? Should there be exceptions to rules and 
should employees be accommodated under certain circumstances? Does 
free enterprise and the market place actually achieve equality of 
opportunity for hard working people of all races, genders, religions, ethnic 
groups, physical abilities, age, nationalities, health status, medical 
condition, familial status, sexual orientation, and identity?  These are 
complicated questions and the best managers in the business world should 
take this course to ensure that they are familiar with the right rules, and 
questions to ask in order to guide their business away from exposure and 
liability.  LEARNING OBJECTIVE/STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: 
The learning objective of this course is to acquire content knowledge of the 
field of employment law, to be able to anticipate challenges in the 
workplace posed by either an employer’s existing policies, an aggrieved 
employee, or a change in the law.  Mastery of the subject will enable 
students to identify whether proposed or existing employer policies, or 
actions are legal. 
 
ABOUT THE PROFESSOR: 
Attorney William Sheslow, Esq. practices employment law for both plaintiff 
and defendant alike. He earned his Bachelor of Arts Degree in Political 
Science from the University of California, Berkeley with Highest Honors 
and Highest Distinction, and earned his Juris Doctorate from the 
University of California, Davis where he received Moot Court Board Honors 
and participated on its competition teams across the country.  He has 
worked in the US Senate, for Non-Profit Organization’s serving to 
champion Union rights, and Disability Rights in the workplace. In the legal 
arena, Mr. Sheslow has experience representing indigent criminal 
defendants as a member of the Public Defender’s Office but also gained 
experience on the prosecution side at the Los Angeles District Attorney’s 
Office. Attorney Sheslow has tried multiple federal jury trials including 
winning verdicts in employment law matters against companies and has 
tried cases against law enforcement agencies before juries in Tampa. 
Attorney Sheslow also represents employers against these same lawsuits 
preparing to battle in court, and often investigating claims before they 
become actionable against the employer.  Mr. Sheslow has written appeals 
to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, and at every lower court level. He 
is a member of the Middle and Southern District Federal and Florida State 
Bar.  
Research Interests: Evolutionary psychology and discrimination. What are 
the foundations (or lack there of) for outgroup prejudice? Do economic and 
legal incentives operate to effectively defeating prejudice in the workplace?  
CLASS FORMAT AND GRADING: Class sessions will be a mixture of lecture, and discussion, and possibly in 
class and group assignments.  Discussions will involve interaction, analysis 
of the issues in various cases and concepts in the assigned reading.  Class 
participation is important and will be graded.  The Midt-Term exam will be 
take home, and will consist of short answer responses and multiple choice 
questions. The final exam will be a take-home paper, also involving short 
answer responses, multiple choice questions and short essay answers.   
For classroom discussions, prepare responses to the “Learning Objectives” 
appearing at the beginning of each chapter, and prepare answers to the case 
questions at the end of the chapters. Please bring in current events in 
employment law to share and generate discussions for the class session.  
Graded Items: Percent of Final Grade 
Participation and Engagement: 25% 
Mid-Term Exam: 25% 
Final Exam 50% 
Letter grades will be as follows: 
94-100 = A 
90-93= A- 
87-89 = B+ 
84-86 = B 
80-83 = B- 
70-79 = C 
Below 70 is an F. 
TEXTBOOK: 
Employment Law for Business, By Dawn Bennett-Alexander and Laura 
Hartman, 10th edition.  9781260734270  
RELIGIOUS PREFERENCE ABSENCE POLICY: 
 Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the 
observation of a major religious observance must provide advance notice of 
the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes.  
 
 
ACCOMMODATION POLICY: 
Students with documented learning and/or  physical disabilities in need of 
accommodations should be encouraged to work with Student Disability 
Services and inform the instructor about any special requirements they may 
have. All reasonable efforts should be made to accommodate students with 
regard to note taking, reading assignments and test taking. 
ACADEMIC DISHONESTY POLICY: 
Academic dishonesty of any type, including plagiarism, on any assignments 
in this course will not be tolerated.  Please see the University's 
Undergraduate Catalogue for definitions of academic dishonesty and the 
consequences. 
SALE OF NOTES OR TAPES: 
No notes or tapes of this course are permitted to be sold. 
  COURSE ITINERARY AND OUTLINE 
******Subject to change, edit, and amendment****** 
Week 1. 1/12: Intro to Employment Law. Article: Out of the Household: 
Master-Servant Relations and Employer Liability Law. Current Events: 
#Metoo Article. Chapter 1: What does it mean to be an employee? 
Week 2. 1/19: Chapter 2; Intro to Law and Whistleblowers! Plus Handouts 
on Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision, and other common law causes 
of action.  
Week 3. 1/26: Chapter 3; Title VII; Protected Classes, Proving 
Discrimination.  
Week 4. 2/2: Chapter 4: The Hiring Process 
Week 5. 2/9: Chapter 13: Disability Discrimination 
Week 6: 2/16:  Mid-Term Exam posted on Canvas.  This is a Take Home Exam; open book, open note. It is Due 2/23. Assigned Reading: 
Chapter 6: Race Discrimination: Prevention, Identification, Legal Remedy 
Week 7: 2/23 Chapter 7: National Origin Discrimination. (Mid-Term Exam 
Due by 2/23 at midnight by online submission).  
Week 8: 3/2  Chapter 8 and Chapter 9 Gender Discrimination, Sexual 
Harassment and Hostile Work Environments.  
Week 9: 3/9 Cont’d Gender Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Hostile 
Work Environments 
Week of 3/16 : Spring Break; No Class գդե 
Week 10:  3/23 Chapter 10: Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity 
Discrimination 
Week 11: 3/30 Chapter 11: Religious Discrimination 
Week 12: 4/6 Chapter 10: Age Discrimination  
Week 13: 4/13 Chapter 14: select sections on Privacy and Private Sector 
Employers Only  
Week 14:  4/20 Social Psychology in the Workplace, Group Bias, and 
Prejudice.  Articles forthcoming.  
Week 15: 4/27  Semester Review; Final posted on Canvas. Final is 
open book, open note written responses to short answer 
questions, multiple choice and short essay responses.  
Week 16: 5/4 Final Exam Due via online submission by midnight 5/4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 