  
 
 
 
 
 
Instructor:  Giti Javidi  
Office Location:  C217  
Office Hours:  By appointment  
Phone Number:  941-359-4257  
Email:  javidi@usf.edu  Semester:  Summer 202 3 
Class Meeting Days:  Asynchronous  
Class Meeting Time:  Asynchronous  
Class Meeting Location:  Canvas  
 
 
 
 
COURSE DECRIPTION :  
From Course Catalog: “This course is an introduction to the concepts and principles of database management. It 
is intended to provide potential designers, users, and managers of data -base systems with an understanding of 
physical vs. logical representation s, data modeling, implementation, and data management. Database skills are 
developed through both individual and team projects.”  
 
“In this course, students will be introduced to the design, construction, and use of relational databases. The 
content of the  course has been selected to provide students with the knowledge and analytical skills in this 
subject that are needed to successfully enter professional management information systems careers.”  
 
PREREQUISITE:  ISM 3113 Systems Analysis and Design (with a grade of “C” or better)  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK  
• MindTap for Shellman/Afyouni/Pratt/Last's, A Guide to SQL, 1 term Printed, 10th Edition, Cengage, 
ISBN:  9780357419748  (you will be provided an online access code to the e -book and the lab exrecises)  
 
OPTIONAL READING  
• Fundamentals of Database Management Systems, 2nd ed., by Mark L. Gillenson. W iley (2012).  
• T-SQL, 3ed., Itzik Ben -Gan, Microsoft Press (2016). Beginning Microsoft SQL Server 2012 
Programming, by Paul Atkinson and Robert Vieira. Wiley (2012).  
• Database Systems Design, Implementation, and Management, 13th ed., by Coronel, Morris, Rob. 
Cengage (2019). Database Concepts, 7th ed., Kroenke, Auer. Pearson (2015).  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES  
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
• recognize the role of data management in the modern business organization  
• demonstrate modeling skills used to identify organizational data structures  
• describe the fundamental principles of relational database technology  
• employ Structured Query Language to manipulate data in relational databases  
• apply database techno logy to typical Business Analytics needs of organizations  
• identify the primary organizational responsibilities of database professionals  
• summarize the major issues affecting database design and use in environments involving client/server 
databases, distrib uted databases, and data warehouses  
ISM 4212  
Database Administration & Design  
School of Information Systems and Management 
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity 
Management Program  
   
MINDTAP : Assignments, Quizzes, and Exercises  
Our primary source in this course is MindTap (for the database design practice, quizzes, and assignments). 
MindTap comes wi th a full access to the interactive ebook (readable online or off), study tools, and plenty of 
opportunities to practice developing databases . Student assignments in MindTap will be graded manually by the 
instructor and grades will be automatically recorde d on Canvas.  
• You must complete the reading assignments, quizzes, and assignments in MindTap.   
• You must complete practice exercises (not graded) and assignments (graded).  
• You are also required to watch the “Visualize Videos” which are woven into the course  to help 
understand core concepts with detailed animations and narrated audio.  
• Each week, you must  review key concepts with interactive flashcards.  
• There are ample opportunities for you to practice designing databases  and apply what you have learned 
each week with various quizzes and coding activities.  
 
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
• Canvas: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If 
you need help  learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses 
being offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. 
You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . The course 
will include recorded lectures, reading assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, 
discussions and homework (posted on CANVAS).  
•    Recorded videos and instructor notes : Course participants are not are not permi tted to sell 
notes or video recording of class lectures.  
•    Honorlock:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  
Therefore,  students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  
when  taking  an exam  or quiz.  
•    Windows Based Laptop:  You must have a Windows based laptop, otherwise, you will not be 
able to complete all the required assignments for this course.  
 
GRADING POLICY  
 
WARNING: There is NO extra credit. There is NO rounding. What you get is what you get. You have all the 
assignments before you. There is no a dditional work available to you if you fail to complete the actual assignments.  
 
The instructor  will accommodate  students  who have  to miss quizzes,  assignments  or tests due to medical  
emergencies  in the immediate  family  or job-related  s situations. These are the only conditions under which 
accommodation will be considered in real -time during the semester. Should such situations arise, the student  
must  provide  necessary  documentation  before  the missed  deliverable  can be rescheduled.  Specifically,  Bulls  
games  are no grounds  for make -ups. 
 
Academic  accommodations  for disabilities  in consultation  with the Office  of Students  with Disabilities  Services  
will be provided  following  university  procedures.  
 
Late  work  receives  a zero grade  until  submitted.  For each  day an assignment  is late, 1% will be deducted  
from  the assignment  grade.  This,  however,  does  not apply  in the case of the final  project,  which  will be due 
right  before  the final grades  are due, so there’s  not much  I can  do for you there.  
 
GRADING SCALE  
USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s 
drop/withdraw date (please refer to important dates on page 1 of this syllabus). Student performance for this 
course will be evaluated based on quizzes , exams , assignments, quizzes , lab exercises, and discussion 
participation , as detailed below. Below is a summary for the determination of the final grade and an explanation 
for each component:  
  Item  Weight  
MindTap Database 
Assignments /quizzes  20 
Tablea u Assignments  5 
Canvas Database Assignments  35 
Canvas Quizzes  10 
Exams  30 
 
A+ = 9 8-100; A  = 92-97; A- = 90-91; B+ = 8 8-89; B  = 82-87; B- = 80-81;  
C+ = 78-79; C = 7 2-77; C- = 70-71; D+ = 68 -69; D = 6 2- 67; D- = 60-61; F = 59 or below  
   
STUDENT EXPECTATIONS  
• Attendance Policy : There is no live lecture attendance requirement. Everything will be placed on 
Canvas.  
• Course Hero/Chegg Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. Thi s does 
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading 
proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
• End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of  an online system for students 
to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the 
end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. 
Your participation is ex pected and valued.  
• Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which 
instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, 
as well as an enormous database o f student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you 
will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the 
assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another 
author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit 
http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
• Syllabus Terms:  All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including  the online  
terms  and video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in 
the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may elect  to drop or withdraw  
from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add  period.   
• Honorlock:  Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  will require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  
students  will be required  to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with a microphone  when  taking  an exam  
or quiz.  Students  understand  that this remote  recording  device  is purchased  and controlled  by the 
student  and that recordings  from  any private  residence  must  be done  with the permission  of any person  
residing  in the residence.  To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should  select  private  spaces  for 
the testing.  Students  with concerns  may discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with 
their instructor  or advisor.  Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  
privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  
concerns.  Student s are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they take all exams  using  a reliable  
computer  and high-speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to taking  the 
proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required  to download  and install the Honorlock  
Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF  online  proctoring  student  
FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
TABLEAU REQUIREMENT  
One of the strategic priorities at the Muma College of Business is “Distinctive Analytics and Creativity”.  The 
Citizen Data Science (CDS) Certificate program was implemented based on the strategic priorities to provide 
opportunities to Muma graduates to be data scientists. The Tableau projects that you will d o throughout your time 
at the Muma College of Business will provide the opportunities to learn five of the top ten skills:  
• Analytical and critical thinking   • Problem -solving using data  
• Critical Analysis  
• Creativity  
• Reasoning  
 
In this course, students are requ ired to complete a Tableau project. After the completion of the projects, students 
will be able to:  
• get business insights from the data analysis that you can visualize and explain to others who are not 
data-savvy  
• increase acumen in complex problem -solving  
• improve creativity and critical business decision making ability  
• develop logical reasoning  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of 
policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -
syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
WEB PORTAL INFORMATION  
Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail account.  Students receive official USF 
correspondence and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu . 
 
GENE RAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, computers, 
printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information Commons is staffed by 
librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e -learning specialists. Students 
challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to 
contact their prof essors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic success, and/or 
regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning Support Services 
(http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic -resources/information -commons/tutoring.aspx ) which 
are provided at no cost to students.  
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and internships.  
Whether  students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, Career Services can 
help develop a plan to reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, 
practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school infor mation sessions.   Access 
these resources or schedule an appointment with career advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa 
Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more info rmation, 
email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and 
graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work 
individually with you,  at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. 
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an 
appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center:  The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus 
community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and 
training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is 
available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of  crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocati ng 
for their rights, and by offering support and resources. Contact information is available 
online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center : The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and writing 
consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center : The Wellness Cente r provides counseling and medical services, as well 
as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is available online .  
Sarasota -
Manat ee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring and writing 
consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, 
Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish. Make an appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential 
resource where you can talk about incidents of di scrimination and harassment, including 
sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship 
violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For 
assistance le ave a message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon 
as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and 
partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with me? You can either (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) call/text 
me or (iii) set up an appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please 
write the appropriate subject and inclu de your name at the bottom of the email. The emails should be composed 
professionally and the language should be courteous and respectful.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted through 
Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, unless 
your question is about that subject. If you  are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email 
address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all previous text from that email, 
if your email pertains to something else.  
 
How will I communicate with you? I will send an nouncements through Canvas. The announcements should 
arrive in your inbox. If you send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back through Canvas. If you send 
me an email directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to  reply to your 
emails within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Spam Mail folder so if you have not received my response within 24 
hours, please either resend your em ail or call my office phone number and leave a message in case I am not in 
my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments through Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send ema ils and announcements. 
I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   It is a lot of trouble  to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I had a reason 
for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and expectations a nd have your 
questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a more productive semester. Please 
read every word  in this syllabus by end of the first week and ask me any questions.  
• Complete the reading assignments:   You will get a lot more  out of this class if you complete the assigned 
readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never complete it or try to cram 
it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, unsatisfactory grades are due to 
procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself ample time each week to complete the assigned 
readings for this class.   • Watch the recorded lectures/external videos:  Some modules will include recorded lectures and LinkedIn 
Learn videos. The lec tures that are prepared by me contain topics that I think are the most important in the 
course. Please watch them.  
• Do not procrastinate on completing assignments /labs :  You cannot pass the course without doing at least 
most of the assignments. The homework  assignments build upon one another. If you get behind, you will 
find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Complete the quizzes:  Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage you to 
complete them by the due dates.  
• The bottom line “Do not  procrastinate. ” 
 