1  QMB 3200:  Business and Economic Statistics II  
CRN 50328, Section 5 91 (Hybrid), 3 Credit Hours  
Muma College of Business, School of ISM  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 5/8/202 3 
 
 
Semester:    Summer “C” Term 2023 (5/17/23 through 7/19/23) 
Class Meeting Time : Wedn esdays 5:30 - 9:20 p.m.  
Section 5 91 (CRN: 50 328) Hybrid (in-class & live on Microsoft Teams)  
Location:  SMC –B229  (on USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus)  & live on Microsoft Teams   
Instructor:    Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu , Assistant Professor of Instruction  
Office Location:   Muma College of Business, USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus, SMC –C229  
Office Hours:   On Microsoft Teams – (days/ dates/times – To be announced on Canvas)  
Email:    RGovindu@usf.edu  
 
Note:  This is a 3 -credit hour course. A 3 -credit hour course means  3 hours per week of in -class 
instruction over a 15 -week semester. Since Summer C is only a 10 -week semester, we meet for  4 hours 
of in-class instruction every week  (Wednesdays) . Time for course preparatio n and r eading 
assignments; and time for completing homework assignments, quizzes, and exams  will be extra 
(outside of instructional time) just li ke any other course students take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to the new  semester. In this “Business and Economic Statistics II” 
course. Y ou will learn critical thinking, problem solving, analytical skills that would help you 
throughout your career i n business and industry. The purpose of QMB 3200 is to help 
students in acquiring skills to apply statistical tools and techniques in business analytics and 
decision making in various business environments. This course integrates Excel into the 
course . Whe n mastered, and through practice and experience, these skills can help get into 
high paying jobs , and help with career development . 
 
II. University Course Description  
Simple linear regression and correlation; multiple regression and model building; 
forecasting models; analysis of variance; chi -square tests; nonparametric methods.  
 
III. Course  Prerequisites  
MAC 2233 / MAC 2241, QMB 2100  
 
IV. Course Purpose  
QMB 3200 is the second course in Statistics. It builds upon the foundation established in your 
first course in Statistics (QMB 2100 or its equivalent). The purpose of QMB 3200 is to prepare 
students to appreciate the role statistics play in business analyt ics and decision making. In 
particular, the course emphasizes and prepares students to “learn ,” “interpret ,” and “be 
ready to apply” the concepts and methods, rather than learn calculations alone. This is a 
Business  Foundation course with a minimum “C -“ grade is required . 
2  (https://catalog.usf.edu/content.php?catoid=13&navoid=1486#college -level -requirements ). 
 
V. How to Succee d in this  Course  
There is no way to do well in the course without learning. Just follow all the instructions and 
directions provided in the weekly communications. Be on time with learning. Complete the 
reading assignments. Listen/View all the recordings. L earn to solve problems  using Excel 
based on demo video recordings. Complete all the tasks assigned – HW assignments, Quizzes, 
and Exams. HW assignments is where you learn. Review solutions posted to bridge any gaps 
in learning. Prepare well for exams. Solv e all the problems on the exam. Do not provide 
random and irrelevant answers. Any additional input  will be provided in the review session 
recordings. If you follow the above advice , you will do well.  
 
VI. Course  Topics  
• Quick Review of Concepts and Topics (Probability Distributions, Estimation, and  
Hypothesis Testing) from QMB 2100 that are important for QMB 3200  
• Categorical Data Analysis – Chi-square  Tests  
• Analysis of  Variance  
• Simple Linear  Regression  
• Multiple  Regression  
• Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
 
Course Objectives:  
Through this course, students would develop a working knowledge and expertise on how 
to apply statistical methods to business problems. Students  will be able to:  
1. Strengthen fundamentals, formulate hypothesis from the problem  statement, and learn  
to perform analyses . 
2. Interpret statistical results generated from a selected software program and 
communicate the findings in simple terms to the  decision -maker.  
3. Identify opportunities for and learn to apply statistical tests on Categ orical data such  
as contingency analysis and goodness of fit  tests . 
4. Explain the basis and apply Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) techniques on data  
from experiments/observational studies in  business . 
5. Identify application opportunities and learn to perform simple linear and multiple 
regression analyses, extract valuable information, and apply the results for predictions 
and improved business  decision -making . 
6. Analyze  Time -series  patterns  and learn  to apply  forecasting  methods  for various  
business applications . 
 
VII. Student Learning  Outcomes  
At the conclusion of the course students should be able to:  
1. Develop  hypothesis  from  a problem  statement,  choose  an appropriate  statistical  
technique to apply given the problem context, perform the analysis;  and most 
importantly, interpret the reports/results, and develop well -reasoned and evidence -
based  conclusions . 
2. Learn to perform hypotheses tests on categorical data using Chi -Square goodness of fit 
tests and tests of  independence . 3  3. Understand the principle s of designed experimentation, identify an appropriate 
experimental design to perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) on data from 
experimental/observational studies; develop hypothesis statements, perform the  
analysis, understand, and interpret ANOVA output from a select software; and develop  
conclusions . 
4. Develop both simple and multiple regression models from given data, understand and 
interpret regression analysis output from a select software package, test hypotheses  
and infer relationships between variables, and make predictions on  response.  
5. Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series data, select appropriate forecasting 
techniques given the pattern, develop forecasts and forecast accuracy measures to 
identify the best forecasting  method . 
 
VIII. Required Text book  
• Modern Business Statistics with Microsoft Excel | 7th Edition by David R. 
Anderson/Dennis J. Sweeney/Thomas A. Williams/Jeffrey D. Camm/James J. 
Cochran/Michael J. Fry/Jeffrey W. Ohlmann, CENGAGE, ISBN: 9780357131 527 
[After a very quick r eview of topics from Statistics I (Chapters 1 -9), the primary focus of 
QMB 3200 will be on: Chapters 12, 13, 14, 15, and 17]  
You would find eBook the cheapest option.  
However, it is your choice in what form you want to buy the book ( a new textbook, a 
used copy, rent it, or buy an eBook ), and want to buy any other additional stuff. As far 
as our course is concerned, the only thing required is the textbook . 
• In this course we use “Microsoft Excel” extensively. Usage of other spreadsheet 
applications such as Go ogle Sheets, OpenOffice, and others is not acceptable. If you do 
not have Microsoft Office on your system, as a student of USF you are allowed free 
download and installation of Microsoft Office for personal use. Check out the info at:  
https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -download.aspx . 
 
IX. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and  Materials  
Additional supplementary (optional) documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed  for 
the benefit of students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge. However, 
students will not be tested on the content.   X. Grading  Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
96.50 – 100%  A+ 
91.50 – 96.49%  A 
89.50 – 91.49%  A- 
86.50 – 89.49%  B+ 
81.50 – 86.49%  B 
79.50 – 81.49%  B- 
76.50 – 79.49%  C+ 
71.50 – 76.49%  C 
69.50 – 71.49%  C- 
66.5 – 69.49%  D+ 
61.50 – 66.49%  D 
59.50 – 61.49%  D- 
0 – 59.49%  F 
 
It is mandatory that students must write all the three exams to be held to earn a final grade in 
the course. Students who do not attempt any exam /s will be assigned an “F” grade.  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be  
entertained . 
 
XI. Grade Categories and  Weights  
 
Assessment  Weights (% of 
Final Grade)  
Attendance & Class Participation  10% 
Homework Assignments  (Individual Task – on-line submission through Canvas)  20% 
Quizzes  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 15% 
Exam #1  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 15% 
Exam #2  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20% 
Exam # 3 (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20% 
          Total   100%  
 
XII. Additional Details on the Course Assignments and Grading Policies  
 
Since Quizzes and Homework assignments are all announced at the beginning of the 
semester along with their deadlines on Canvas; they are due by the deadline indicated 
irrespective of whether you attended the class or missed the class for any reason /s. Ther e 
will be NO allowances, concessions, or make -up work be given for missed HW Assignments 
and Quizzes that will be assigned zero points. Exams are due as indicated in the schedule. 
No make -up exams will be given to anyone  for any reason. Students do not  need to do any 
extra work, all that they must  do is just complete the work assigned as indicated on time 
and every  time .   
COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Course participation on Canva s is mandatory on all weeks during the semester . Attendance & 
Class Participation carries 10% of the course final grade . It is mandatory that students must 
attend and actively participate (simply attending will not be enough) in class the entire class 
dura tion to earn those points.  We meet on  10 Wednesdays;  hence a point will be allocated for 
each day.  Students who do not attend class es for whatever reason maybe  will lose those 
points. There will be no allowances, and concessions on this requirement.  The na ture of the 
course is such, and there is also compelling evidence  that students who participate in the 
course every week  stay in class the entire time;  end up learning the subject matter better and 
earn good grades. Students must not only attend but engage themselves in the course  
proceedings  through active participation, and  practice along in class all the problems that the 
professor demonstrates . Every  student will be tracked for their attendance and class 
participation  every week. Attending part of the class  will earn only part of the point  for that 
day.  
 
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:  
All homework assignments are individual tasks. Every week specific topics  will be covered 
along with solved example problems. Homework will be assigned by 10 p.m. the day of class  
(Wedn esday)  that consists of a set of problems like the solved example problems discussed in 
class/on PPT files. You will have sufficient time as indica ted on the detailed schedule to solve 
the problems and to create a Report in Excel. Submit your report as an Excel file on Canvas 
before the due date and time indicated. Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED for solving HW  
problems. If Excel is not used (along with  Excel functions and Excel Data Analysis  Toolpak  
options), zero points will be recorded for the HW assignment.  
 
The strict deadline for HW submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern as indicated on Canvas . 
For your convenience, they are also listed in the Detailed Course Schedule at the end of this 
document. There will be no extension of due dates. No late submissions will ever  be allowed . 
Be prepared to lose HW points if the Report is not turned in  before  the deadline . No e -mail  
submissions or hard -copy submissions are accepted . All HW scores shall count towards final  
grade . Homework Reports will be graded for Relevancy and Completeness but not for  
Accuracy . If the submissions are on time, relevant, complete, and all the problems  are 
solved,  you get full points . Irrelevant solutions will earn you zero points . You will get  partial 
credit for partial/incomplete solutions and submissions . HW report must demonstrate  
student’s own work . If any HW reports are found to be copied, all the students who helped 
and/or received help shall be treated as violators, will receive zero points, and be reported 
for academic dishonesty. Solutions for HW assignments will be made avai lable within a 
couple of days past the deadline. It is your responsibility to compare solutions provided with 
your answers and learn from them  in preparation for exams. If you have any questions or 
need help, you MUST seek help from the instructor or stude nt tutor as needed for your own 
benefit. Please remember that solving Homework Assignments on your own is the most  
crucial step  in preparing for exams . Colluding with classmates and other students/people, 
using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites  such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other 
modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Submitting work of tutors and classmates (as  your  
own), and reports from tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of  cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for 
academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university 
policies.  
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS AND QUIZZES:  
Reading Assignments are mandatory. Complete course material word d ocument chapter 
readings and practice them in Excel before the deadlines indicated prior to attending class. As 
you read the chapters, work out  the solved example problems in Excel. If you are not doing  
what is required to be done before attending classes, you are not doing what is essential for  
succeeding in this course.  All Quizzes are individual tasks, typically multiple choice and/or fill -
in the blank type. Quizzes are open book and open notes type and will test student 
understanding for the sub ject matter and not rote memorization nor the student ability to 
search out for answers because they will be of open book -open note type. You need to 
really learn the material and understand the subject to do well on quizzes. There will be Ten 
Quizzes in a ll as indicated in the detailed schedule . Every week specific topics  will be covered 
in class. Once a chapter is completed, an on -line quiz will be assigned on Canvas using 
Honorlock . Each quiz consists of a set of “multiple choice  or Fill in the Blank ” qu estions. You 
will have sufficient time to complete the Quizzes held on Canvas - Honorlock . It always helps 
and perhaps your performance will be better if the quiz is attempted after completing the 
homework. Each quiz will be timed and must be completed with in the allotted  time  before 
the deadline indicated . All quiz scores shall count towards final grade . A missed quiz will result 
in a score of zero. Solutions for the quizzes will be made available within a couple of days past 
the deadline. Academic dishones ty will be dealt with very strictly under university policies. 
Quizzes are administered online on Canvas using Honorlock  based on USF system policies. 
Honorlock  violations will be reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding with classmates 
and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as 
Chegg.com …  etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive 
zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with 
very strictly under university policies.  
 
EXAMS:  
Exams are individual tasks . There will be t hree  exams and all of them are held  on Canvas - 
Honorlock  and mus t be completed within the time window indicated . Students cannot 
miss an Exam. No make -up exams are given . You must make sure you complete the exam 
and submit your file on time or be prepared to lose points. Exams will be open textbook  and 
open notes type . You are allowed to use laptops and perform calculations using Excel.  
Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED and for solving Exam problems. If Excel is not used (along 
with  Excel functions and Excel Data Analysis  Toolpak options), zero points will be recorded 
for the  Exams.  While there will certainly be  number crunching involved, it will not be a major 
focus, and it will be  minimized  as much  as possible.  Exams  will test the student  
understanding  for the application of the methods and interpretation of results. P roblems on 
exams will be like the HW problems. You would not need statistical packages for the exams. 
Exams will be graded for Accuracy. All exam scores shall count towards final grade . Exams  
are administered online in Canvas using Honorlock  based on USF system policies. 
Honorlock  violations will be reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding with classmates 
and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as 
Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating  is strictly prohibited. Violators will  receive zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be 
dealt with very strictly under university  policies.  
 
XIII. Grade  Dissemination  
All submissions happen on Canvas. The instructor  will respond to email communication 
relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. Students will know their 
Quiz score immediately after submission but not solutions key. For academic integrity 
reasons, Quiz solutions and HW solutions will  be made available within 1 -2 days after the 
deadline passes (after resolving any issues). Grades and comments (as appropriate) for 
Homework assignments and Exams will be posted on Canvas typically within 1 -2 weeks past 
the respective due dates. If any del ays happen beyond that time  due to unforeseen 
circumstances, students will be informed of the possib ility of delays through e -mail. You can 
access your scores at any time using "Gradebook" in Canvas after they are posted.  
 
 
 
   XIV. Course Schedule (* Note: The Schedule is subject to  revision  if and as needed ) 
In this course, Wedn esday will be treated as the class meeting day , and Wedn esday -thru -Tues day will 
be treated as a week . 
Week  Date  Description  
1 5/17 
(Week of 
5/17–5/23) • HOMEWORK #0  (Self Introduction) – will open on 5/15 and is due 
before 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 5/1 6 
• “Not -for-Grade First -Week Quiz” (on Honorlock)  – will open on 5/15 
and is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 5/1 6 
• Do a quick review (if at all needed) on Textbook Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 
4, Appendix E & Appendix F  before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 5/ 16 
 
Topic:  Syllabus, Course Outline, Introduction to Statistics, Descriptive 
Statistics and Probability  
 Learning Objective:  
• Understand Course Overview, Objectives, Structure, and Grading 
Policy  
• Develop a basic overview on the importance of Statistics.  
• Learn the significant role  Statistics plays in Business Decision Making  
• Understand population and sample, parameters,  and statistics.  
• Learn to calculate measures of central tendency and measures of 
dispersion.  
• Learn to understand variables, statistical experiments, and  random 
variables.  
• Learn the basic concepts and importance of Probability.  
 
 
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #1  – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 5/2 3 
• QUIZ  #1 (on Honorlock) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 5/2 3 
 
• Do a Quick Review (if needed) of Textbook Chapters 5 and 6  by 
Tues day, 5/2 3 
 5/20  Last day to drop course w/o financial responsibility – Friday, 5/19  
2 5/24 
(Week of 
5/24–5/30) Topic: Discrete & Continuous Probability Distributions  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand the concept of a random variable and a probability 
distribution.  
• Learn discrete probability distributions, learn when to apply a 
particular distribution, and calculate  probabilities.  
• Learn continuous probability distributions, learn w hen to apply a 
particular distribution, and calculate  probabilities.  
 
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK #2  – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 5/3 0 
• QUIZ  #2 (parts 2a and 2b – on Honorlock) – are due before 11:59 
p.m. Tues day, 5/ 30 
  Week  Date  Description  
• Do a Quick Review (if needed) of  Textbook Chapters 7, 8, and 9 by 
Tues day, 5/3 0 
3 5/31 
(Week of 
5/31–6/6) Topic: Estimation  
 
Learning Objective : 
• Understand the importance of Central Limit Theorem in Statistical 
Inference  
• Develop point & interval estimates for a population parameter given 
the sample dataset from various business decision  contexts.  
• Learn to interpret confidence interval  estimates.  
• Understand and appreciate the importance of Hypothesis testing  in 
Business Decision  making.  
• Develop hypothesis from a problem  statement.  
• Learn to choose an appropriate statistical technique to apply 
given  the problem context,  
• Learn to conduct hypothesis tests , and most importantly, interpret 
the reports/results, and develop  conclusions.  
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK #3  – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 6/6 
• QUIZ  #3 (on Honorlock)  – is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 6/6 
4 6/7 
(Week of 
6/7–6/13) Scheduled Event : Review session for Exam #1  
 
Exam #1  (Take Home on Canvas -Honorlock ) – (on Discrete Probability 
Distributions, Continuous Probability Distributions, and Estimation) will 
open on Friday, 6/9 and be set to close at 11:59 p.m. Sunday, 6/11 
 
Assignment:  
• Review Textbook Chapter 12 by Tues day, 6/13 
5 6/14 
(Week of 
6/14–6/20)  Topic:  Hypothesis Testing & Chi -Square Testing  
 
Learning Objective : 
• Learn to conduct hypothesis tests , and most importantly, 
interpret the reports/results, and develop  conclusions.  
• Learn to develop Hypothesis Statements and perform hypotheses  
tests on cat egorical data using Chi -Square  tests.  
• Learn to conduct Goodness of Fit tests and interpret  results.  
 
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK #4  – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 6/20 
• QUIZ # 4 (on Honorlock ) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 6/2 0 
 
• Review Textbook Chapter 13 by Tues day, 6/20 
6 6/21 
(Week of 
6/21–6/27)  Topic: Chi-Square Testing (continued …) & Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)   
 
Learning Objective : 
• Learn to conduct Contingency Table test and interpret  results.   Week  Date  Description  
• Identify an appropriate design to perform Analysis of Variance 
(ANOVA) given the problem statement and learn to develop 
hypothesis statements.  
• Appreciate the role of and learn to perform the Completely  
Randomized Design, Randomized Block Design, and Factorial 
Design based analysi s using Excel, and conduct Fisher’s Least 
Significance Difference  test.  
• Understand and interpret ANOVA output; develop conclusions 
for the decision  maker.  
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK # 5 – Report  is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 6/27 
• QUIZ # 5 (parts 5a and 5 b – on Honorlock) – are due before 11:59 
p.m. Tues day, 6/2 7  
 6/27  Midterm Grade is posted by 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 6/27  
7 6/28 
(Week of 
6/28–7/4) 
 Scheduled Event : Review session for Exam #2  
 
Exam #2 (Take Home on Honorlock ) – (on Hypothesis Testing, Chi -Square 
Testing, and ANOVA) will open on Thursd ay, 6/29 and be set to close at 
11:59 p.m. Satur day, 7/1 
 
Assignment:  
• Review Textbook Chapter s 14 and 1 5 by Tues day, 7/4 
 7/2 Last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty for 2023 Summer C 
term – Saturday, 7/1  
8 7/5 
(Week of 
7/5–7/11) Topic: Simple Linear Regression  
 
Learning Objective : 
• Develop appreciation for the importance of Regression and  
Correlation.  
• Test hypotheses about relationships between  variables  
• Understand and interpret the regression output from Excel.  
• Extract useful information from regression report for business 
decision -making.  
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK # 6– Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 7/11 
• QUIZ #6 (on Honorlock) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 7/11  
• Review Textbook Chapter 1 7 by Tues day, 7/11 
9 7/12 
(Week of 
7/12–7/18) Topic: Multiple Regression (Continued …) & Time Series Analysis and 
Forecasting   
 
Learning Objective : 
• Develop multiple regression model for given  data.  
• Test hypotheses about relationships between  variables  
• Understand and interpret the regression output from Exce l.  
• Extract useful information from regression report for business 
decision -making.   Week  Date  Description  
• Learn how to deal with categorical independent variables in  
regression.  
• Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series  data.  
• Learn to select an appropriate forecastin g technique based on time  
series pattern.  
• Learn to develop forecasts using techniques like Naïve, Moving 
Averages, Exponential Smoothing, and Regression  methods.  
• Understand the role of Forecast Accuracy Measures, and to select 
the best  method for forecasti ng for a given  problem.  
 
Assignment:  
• HOMEWORK # 7 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Tues day, 7/18 
• QUIZ # 7 (parts 7a and 7b – on Honorlock) – are due before 11:59 
p.m. Tues day, 7/18 
10 7/19 
(Between  
7/20–7/22) Scheduled Event : Review session for Exam #3.  
 
Exam #3  (Take Home on Honorlock ) – (on Simple Linear Regression, Multiple 
Regression, and Time Series Analysis & Forecasting) will open on Thurs day, 
7/20 and be set to close at 11:59 p.m. Saturday , 7/22 
 8/2 Final Grade is reported to USF by 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 8/1 and will be 
posted on Canvas Grade Book before 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, 8/2  
 8/11  Grades visible in OASIS on 8/11  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  if and as needed during the semester  
 
 
   XV. General Education Statement (undergraduate only – Required if a Gen Ed  course)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVI. Integration of This Course into Your Academic Experience (Gen Ed  only)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVII. Global Citizens Project (only required if a GCP course; must be  verbatim)  
Not Applicable  
 
XVIII.  Standard Uni versity  Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by 
a central set of policies that apply to all class es at USF. These may be accessed at: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XIX. Covid -19 Procedures  
 
Everyone  is expected  to follow  all USF’s  Covid -19 guidance  and protocols  
(https://www.usf.edu/coronavirus/updates/spring -2022 -covid -protocols.aspx ). USF expects 
masks to be worn when indoors, especially in a c rowded setting.  All USF community, faculty, 
staff, and students must comply with university policies.  
 
Additional details are available on the University’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements 
page: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/r esources -policies -forms/core -
syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XX. Course Policies:  Grades  
Online Proctoring : Online exams and quizzes within this course will require online proctoring. 
Quizzes and examinations will be admin istered  using an online  proctoring tool  - Honorlock . 
Keeping the audio and video (microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is 
necessary . Therefore, students will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a 
microphone when taking an  exam or quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device 
is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private residence must 
be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns i n 
this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other 
academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings, and students with 
concerns may discuss the location of an appropriate spac e for the recordings with their instructor 
or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights 
and accept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns. Setup 
information w ill be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional information about 
online proctoring,  you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at :  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
 
Late Work Policy : No late w ork will be allowed in this course be it for HW assignments, 
Quizzes, or Exams. Student acquisition of knowledge in this course happens cumulatively. The  nature of the course is such that student learning of topics must happen on a weekly basis as 
schedule d. Otherwise, it will affect learning in  the subsequent weeks. All the due dates for the 
tasks in this course are announced on day 1. It is the responsibility of students to submit their 
work well ahead of time and to meet all the deadlines. If proper, cor rect, and valid 
submissions do not happen before the respective deadlines; zero points will be recorded for 
the task. The only exception to this policy will be documented medical emergencies (if any) 
for the student needing medical attention with proper me dical / hospitalization certificate. As 
all the dates have been announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, or 
on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late by a second will not qualify for any 
exceptions or concessions a s far as the assignment submissions go. Assignments not 
submitted on time mean assignment was not turned in and will earn a zero  credit.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : There will be No Extra Credit  to be offered in this course . There is no 
need to do any extra work  on this course. Just do what you have been assigned on time  
without missing  the deadlines to become eligible for the grade. Every task (HW assignments, 
Quizzes, and Exams) assigned in this course shall count towards your grade. If you fail to meet 
the dea dline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No exceptions. Any exception will be 
made ONLY for  medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student with proper official 
documentation from the doctor/hospital.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Students cannot demand an “I” grade as they wish. If any student 
is not earning good grades, that cannot become a basis for asking for an “I” Grade. In such 
cases “I” grade cannot be awarded. It can be requested only under exceptional 
circumstances for val id reasons and a decision will be made based on USF policy.  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course. 
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small  
 portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise  earning 
a passing grade . The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. 
For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semes ters, whether  
the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, 
this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I”  
grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever  is 
appropriate.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ("I") is exceptional and granted at the  
instructor’s discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due 
to illness or other circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student 
must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be 
completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all 
incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated a nd extended by student/instructor 
if it does not exceed two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate 
courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared 
within the two semesters for undergraduat e courses and one semester for graduate courses 
(including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Rewrite  Policy : There  will be no rewrites  to this course.  All quizzes  and exams  can be attempted 
only once. Students can submit their HW reports multiple times,  but all the submissions must 
happen only before the set deadline (and not  after).    
Make -up Exams Policy : There will be No Make -up Exams in this course. Exams can be 
attempted only on ce. Time windows for the Exams are announced on Day 1. It is the student 
responsibility to adjust their schedules to give their exams during the exam time window. No 
change of dates will be entertained unless there is absolutely an exceptional circumstance  at 
student’s end and for documented medical emergencies and only if student has notified the 
instructor in advance and certainly not after the deadline passes. As all the dates have been 
announced  at the beginning  of the semester,  being  on office  trip, or on vacation,  or on cruise, 
or forgetfulness, or being late will not qualify for any exceptions or concessions. If Exams are 
not submitted on time, zero points will be  recorded.  
 
Exam Retention Policy : Not applicable for this course as all the Exams are Honorlock -based. 
Student submission happens  on Canvas so there will be an electronic record. So, whatever 
USF policy is for Canvas course retention that applies for the course.  
  
Essay Commentary Policy : Not applicable.  
 
Group Work Policy : All the tasks in the course – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams are 
individual tasks. There is no group work allowed on this course. If there is any group work in 
the group work, that would be plagiarism. In such instances, action will be taken on stude nts 
based on USF policy on academic integrity violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the  
University’s final examination policy.  
 
XXI. Course Policies: Technology and  Media  
 
Email : I am Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu,  and I will be your instructor for this course. My e -mail 
address is: RGovindu@usf.edu . If you are e -mailing me, as a courtesy, please commence 
your  
email with a greeting such as “Dear Dr. Govindu ,” “Hello Dr. Govindu ,” or “Dr. Govindu .” please 
write the appropriate subject and please print your name  at the bottom of the email.  
 
How to communicate with me  
Sending an e -mail would be the best way to appr oach me . Should you need help with the 
course, we can set up time to discuss remotely on Teams at mutual convenience. Meanwhile, 
you can email me with the questions, and I may be able to clarify your questions through an e -
mail. If at all needed, we can se t up an appointment at mutual convenience for a tele -
conversation and if possible and required a Microsoft Teams meeting.  
 
How NOT to communicate with me?  
• Please do not  post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework submissions.  I 
will not read your comments until I sit down to grade your assignment.  
• Please do not  email me from a non -USF email  account.  
• Please do not  submit deliverables to me by e-mail. It will be treated as a non - 
submission.   • Please do  not reply to an email that I sent  to the entire class without changing the subject 
unless your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button to get my 
email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and delete all previou s text 
from that email, if your email pertains to something else. In which case it is better to not 
use the “reply” button and just start a fresh email.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will use the Canvas messaging utility to send you all emails pertai ning to the course. So, you 
must check your USF mail account (and/or your e -mail where you receive USF e -mails by 
default). Whenever a student asks a question and I reply directly to that student. If and 
where the student question and my reply are particul arly important  for the rest of the class 
to know, I will send out a mass e -mail, hiding the student identity. Students over the years 
found such input  quite beneficial for them.  
  
When students send me e -mails, I get them in my USF e -mail Inbox, and I will  reply through 
my USF e -mail. If I am sending e -mails, I will use Canvas messaging feature to send e -mails. 
You should also do the same. I deal with almost a hundred  students and sometimes even 
more and I receive hundreds of e -mails. When you send e -mails through Canvas, I will know  
who you are, in which course of mine you are in, I will understand the context for the 
question, and what is it that you are asking and why. That will help me to respond quickly. 
Otherwise, it could take a little longer. I respo nd very quickly – sometimes within minutes, 
sometimes within a few hours, sometimes within a day or so depending on the nature and 
importance of communication, circumstances,  and the situation at my end. I respond on 
weekends too. But expect the response t imes to be a bit longer  if it is weekends and if I am 
travelling. But be assured I will respond, and I will respond to student e -mails very quickly as I 
am able to.  
 
Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your end are 
technology related you must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas Helpdesk, and/or 
Honorlock  Helpdesk depending on the issue,  and they will help you immediately. I will not  be 
able to resolve your technology issues.  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If 
you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses 
being offered in Canvas, please view Canvas videos,  or consult the Canvas help guides. If new 
to Canvas, read this guide . You may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or  
help@usf.edu . 
 
Honorlock: In this course, we use Canvas - Honorlock  for all Quizzes and Exams. Students are 
therefore required to have a webcam with a microphone (either USB or mounted  into your 
computer).   
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video 
testing requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course 
is an agreement to abide by and accept  all terms. Any student may elect to drop or withdraw 
from this course before the end of the drop/add period.   Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students 
will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or 
quiz. Students understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the 
student and that recordings from any private residence must be done with the permission of any 
person residing  in the residence.  
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The 
University library and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for 
recordings and students with concerns may di scuss location of an appropriate space for the 
recordings with their instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept 
all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer 
and high -speed internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the 
proctored exam. To use Honorlock students are req uired to download and install the Honorlock 
Google Chrome extension  (Links to a n external site.) ." For additional information please visit the 
USF online proctor ing student FAQ  (Links to an external site.)  and Honorlock student 
resources  (Links to an external site.) .  
Students need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download the 
Honorlock  extension. Your system also needs webcam,  and you need to present your ID (any 
Photo ID would be enough you can simply use your USF ID) for verification to get into 
Honorlock Quizzes and Exams.  
 
Specific information  / instructions will be provided on all Honorlock Quizzes and Honorlock 
Exams . For additional information about online proctoring,  you can visit the online proctoring 
student FAQ.  
 
Panopto: Panopto re cording may be used to record the lectures in class. Please remember that 
student voices may be heard in the captured content.  
 
Laptop Usage: You will need a proper laptop with a microphone  and webcam (either built -in or 
external) for use on this course.  
 
Classroom Devices/Student Recording: Not applicable.  
 
Phone Usage: Not applicable.  
 
Classroom Response Clickers: Not applicable.  
 
XXII. Course Policies: Student  Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy: In a 100% online, Course Participation serves as attendance Policy. 
Please refer to section XII for the details on Course Participation.  
  Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that 
enable cheating, such as by uploading or downlo ading material for this purpose. This does  
apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy: Complet e your work and submit reports on time every time well 
before the respective deadlines on assignments.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to 
the University regarding the co urse. These surveys will be made available at the end of 
the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window 
opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy: Not Applicable.  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course Turnitin service will be utilized for all the assignments to prevent plagiarism. 
The University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection 
service which allows student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Turn itin is an 
automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's 
assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that 
grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected t o submit all assignments in 
both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in 
the assignment. For a more detailed look at thi s process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students 
are requested to maintain confidentiality to keep their personal contact information ( i.e., 
name, address, telephone) from being disclosed to vendors or other outside agencies. By your 
submission, you are also agreeing to release your original work for review for academic 
purposes to Turnitin.  
 
To comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying 
information, such as name, in the body of the document. While submitting to Turnitin, 
PLEASE REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH 
YOUR USF ID #. ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE NAME AND REPLACE IT  
WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., “U12345678 Essay 1.docx”) before submitting.  
 
Plagiarism:  
Definition of plagiarism in USF Regulation 3.027.  
Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It  
includes submitting an assignment purporting to be the student’s original work which has 
wholly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of the 
work, ideas, representations, or words of a nother person without customary and proper 
acknowledgement of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarification in  any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue and will have plagiarized in any 
situation in which their  work is not properly documented.  
a) Every direct quotation must be identified by quotation marks or appropriate indentation 
and must be properly acknowledged by parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote  or 
endnote.  
b) When material from another source  is paraphrased or summarized in whole or in part 
in one’s own words, that source must be acknowledged in a footnote or endnote, or by 
parenthetical citation in the  text.  
c) Information gained in reading or research that is not common professional  
knowledge m ust be acknowledged in a parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote 
or endnote.  
d) This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the use of papers, reports, projects,  
and other such materials prepared by someone  else.  
 
XXIII.  Learning Support and Campus  Offices  
 
Tampa Campus  
 
Tutoring Hub  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF undergraduates. 
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, 
email asctampa@usf.edu  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At 
the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any 
point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are 
recommended, but  not required. For more information or to make an appointment, 
email writingstudio@usf.edu  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus commun ity by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that 
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available 
online . 
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse 
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and 
by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online . 
 
St. Petersburg Campus  
 
Student Success Center  
The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and writing consultations. 
Contact information i s available online . 
  Wellness Center  
The Wellness Center provides counseling and medical services, as well as 
prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact information is available onlin e. 
 
Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
Tutoring and Writing Support  
Learning Support Services provides free tutoring and writing consultations for a 
variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance,  
Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish. Make an appointment  online . 
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk 
about incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, 
gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. 
Call 941 -487-4254  
 
Victim Advocate  
A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance leave a 
message with your phone number and your call will be returned as soon as 
possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexu al assault, 
and partner violence.  
 
XXIV.  Important Dates to Remember  
All the due dates for HW assignments , Quizzes, and Exams are indicated in section  
XIV: Course Schedule above. Please note that those due dates are tentative and may 
be adjusted at the discretio n of the professor  if and as needed.  
 
Please also remember the important semester dates as announced by the 
Registrar: https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/  
Semester Classes Begin:    Mon , May 1 5, 202 3 
First Day of Class for our course:  Wed , May  17, 202 3 
Drop/Add Deadline:    Fri, May 19, 2023 
Mid-term Grading Opens:   Mon, June 19, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Closes :  Tues , June 2 7, 202 3   
Withdrawal Deadline:   Sat, July 1, 202 3 
Last Day of Class for our course:  Wed , July 19, 202 3 
Exam #3 ends:    Sat, July 22 , 202 3 
Grades Visible in OASIS:   Fri, Aug 11, 202 2 
 