 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester:  Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Days:  100% Online  
Class Meeting Time:  100% online   
Class Meeting Location:  Canvas/Microsoft Teams   
Instructor:  Dr. Ehsan Sheybani  
Office Location:  Sarasota -Manatee  Campus – C222 
Office Hours:  By Appointment Only  
Phone Number:  941-359-4387 
Email:  sheybani@usf.edu  
 
 
This is a 12-week course: 2/6/23 – 5/4/23 
 
 
COURSE PREREQUISITES: None . 
  
UNIVERSITY COURSE DESCRIPTION: An overview of fundamental issues and challenges 
related to managing information systems projects. Approaches, techniques, and frameworks from a 
variety of disciplines to facilitate discourse about IS project management and to provide possible 
ways to address project management challenges.  
 
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK:  Include s (but not limited to): 
Information Technology Project Management, 9th Edition , Kathy Schwalbe  
ISBN -10: 1 -337-10135 -4, ISBN -13: 978 -1-337-10135 -6, Available through:  
1. Cengage  - Cengage Unlimited, 1 term (4 months) Printed Access Card  
9780357700037 ($119.99), OR 
2. Cengage  - Cengage Unlimited, Multi -term (12 months) Printed Access Card  
9780357700044 ($179.99).  
 
OPTIONAL TEXTBOOKS:  
1. Rubin, K.S. (2012). Essential Scrum: A Practical Guide to the Most Popular Agile Process , 1st Edition, 
Addison -Wesley Signature Series. (I SBN -13: 978 -0137043293)  
2. Schneider, C., Fuller, M.A., Valacich, J.S., & George, J.F. (2020). Information Systems Project 
Management: A Process Approach, 2nd Edition, Prospect Press,  
3. Lacey, M. (2015).  The Scrum Field Guide: Agile Advice for Your First Year  and Beyond , 2nd Edition, 
Addison -Wesley Signature Series. (ISBN: 0133853624)  
4. Todaro, D. (2019). The Epic Guide to Agile: More Business Value on a Predictable Schedule with Scrum.  
R9 Publishing LLC. ( ISBN -13: 978-1733000406)  
 
ISM6 316-521 
Project Management  
(3 Credit Hours)  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 11/1/2022  
 
 COURSE  OBJECTIVES:   
1. Understand  the nature of challenges related to the management of software development  
2. Understand the guiding principles and foundations of different information systems development methods  
3. Be able to critically assess the opportunities and challenges presented by different practices to plan, 
manage, lead, evaluate, and learn from systems development projects  
4. Have a command of the core techniques and practices in contemporary project management methodologies  
 
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES: Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of project management  
2. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of project management correctly in n ew situations  
3. Analyze project management issues using appropriate methods  
4. Create and evaluate project management artifacts  
 
COURSE TOPICS: This course will cover the following content areas:  
Include (but not limited to) :  
State of Information Systems Devel opment (ISD) projects, ISD project challenges, project charters, project 
selection, project portfolios, project management standards, Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, Kanban, sprints, user 
stories, product backlog, velocity, retrospectives, issue management, outso urcing, virtual project management, 
leadership, meeting facilitation, collaboration in projects, project risk management, change management, 
knowledge management in projects.  
 
COURSE POLICIES: Technology and Media  
 
Canvas: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, 
please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's IT 
department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . The course will include recorded lectures, reading 
assignments, tests (midterm and Final), quizzes, discussions and homework (posted on CANVAS).  
 
Email : how it will be used, who will communicate with whom, who answers technology questions, 
expected response time, will you check it on weekends, etc.  
 
GRADING POLICIES  
Late Work Policy : There are no make -ups for in -class writing, quizzes, the midterm, or the final exam. 
Essays turned in late will be assessed a penalty: a half -letter grade if it is one day late, or a full -letter grade 
for 2 -4 days late. Essays will not be accepted if overdue by more than four days.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : An assignment or two, or other activities may have an extra credit component 
associated with them. Points earned in this manner will not be included in the assignment or exam grade or 
in the final course average. These will be considered after course letter grades have bee n tentatively 
assigned. Extra credit may result in an increase in your final letter grade, especially in borderline situations, 
and will never reduce your grade. For this reason, you should take full advantage of extra credit 
opportunities.  
 
Incomplete Pol icy: An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s 
work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for 
removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. Fo r undergraduate students, this time limit may 
not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, 
whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” 
grades n ot removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy : A make -up exam will be given only if the student has notified the instructor in 
advance that s/he cannot take the exam on the assigned date.  
 
Exam Retention Policy : After exams are graded, the instructor will review the examination with the class 
and co llect all exams. The exams will be retained for one semester following the current one, and then they will be destroyed.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy : Commentary on essays will be delivered in written format, via canvas.  
 
 Final Examinations Policy : All fina l exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final 
examination policy.  
 
 Late Assignment Submission Policy: All assigned work is expected to be turned in on time, by 11:59 p.m. 
of the due date. Late assignments will not be accepted unless prior permission has been granted by your 
Instructor. It is okay for students to work ahead and complete all assignments, lab s and tests if they desire, 
but no makeups or extra credit will be offered.  
 
GRADING SCALES  
 
USF policy requires that all students receive a graded assignment or examination prior to the semester’s 
drop/withdraw date (please refer to important dates on pag e 1 of this syllabus). Options include (but are not 
limited to) : 
1. Discussions: 20%  
2. Case Studies : 20% 
3. Exercises: 20%  
4. Final Assessment: 20% 
5. Team Project : 20% 
 
A+ = 97 -100; A=94 -96; A - =90-93; B+ = 87 -89; B=84 -86; B - = 80-83;  
C+=77 -79; C = 74 -76; C - + 70-73; D = 60 - 69; F = 59 or below  
 
Note:  At the graduate  level,  a grade  of C- is essentially  a failing  grade  because  you will be 
required  to repeat  the course  if you earn a grade  of C- or below.  
 
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements including the online terms and video testing 
requirements to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide 
by and accept all terms.  Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the 
drop/add period. Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students 
will be required to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students 
understand that this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from 
any private residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any 
concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other 
academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns may 
discuss location of an appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.  Students must ensure 
that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all responsibility and liability for 
violations of any third -party  privacy concerns.  Setup informa tion will be provided prior to taking the proctored 
exam. For additional information about online proctoring you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.  
    
COURSE POLICIES: Student Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy : There is no live lecture attendance requirement. Everything  will be placed on CANVAS.  
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use 
websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. Thi s does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary 
materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use o f an online system for students to 
provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the 
semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is 
expected  and valued.   
Turnitin.com:  In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors 
may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an 
enormous database  of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to 
submit all assignments in electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report 
from turnitin.com that states if and how another autho r’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed 
look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 
Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an 
environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically 
evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find 
uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive. In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be 
presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. 
Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be teste d by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and 
that the idea(s) is supported by credible research. Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods 
or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In thi s 
course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding 
of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it. 
Additional guidance related to HB 7 “Individual Freedom Act” can be found online.  
 
Class Recording  
For any of the c lasses that are  recorded and streamed online , student’s voice and video will be included in the 
class recording. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the privacy of their surroundings and background 
is maintained.  
 
STANDARD UNIVERSITY POLICIES  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set of 
policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -
syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
COVID -19 PROCEDURES  
Everyone is expected to wear face coverings, at all t imes, during in -person classes. This guidance comes from the 
CDC and Board of Governors. We expect that all members of our community will wear a mask on campus, 
vaccinated or unvaccinated while indoors, and in crowded outdoor settings. Masks will be made a vailable to 
anyone who needs one.  The following  website not only includes policy statements about COVID -19 operations , 
but also includes statements related to academic integrity, religious observances, disability access, etc.: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx .   
 
USF SYSTEM POLICIES  
Policies are available at regulationspolicies.usf.edu  
 
A. Academic Dishonesty :  The University considers any form of plagiarism or cheating on exams, 
projects, or papers to be unacceptable behavio r.  Please review  the USF System  Regulation 
USF3.027  Academic Integrity of Students  and the USF System Regulat ion USF6.0021 Student 
Code of Conduct . 
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts the learning 
process.  Please review USF System Regulation USF3.025 Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend 
normal operations.  During this time, US F may opt to continue delivery of instruction through  methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration tools , 
email messaging , and/or an alternate schedule. It  is the responsibil ity of the student to monitor 
Canvas for each of their class es for course specific communication, as well as the USFSM 
website, their student email  account , and MoBull  messages for important general information. 
The USF hotline at 1 (800) 992 -4231 is updated with pre -recorded information during an 
emergency.   
 
D. Disabilities Accommodation :  Students are responsible for registering with the Office of 
Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive ac ademic accommodations. 
Reasonable notice must be given to the SDS office (typically 5 working days) for 
accommodations to be arranged. It is the responsibility of the student to provide each instructor 
with a copy of the official Memo of Accommodation.  Co ntact Information:  
https://www.usf.edu/diversity/equal -opportunity/disability -services -contacts.aspx  
   
E. Evacuation  Instructions :  This is a 100% online class but if you do come to campus often then 
please note the emergency exit maps posted in classroom s.  These signs are marked with the 
primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (orange) in case the building 
needs  to be evacuated.  
 
F. Religious Observances :  USFSM recognizes the right of students to observe major religious 
holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class for a major religious 
observance must provide notice of the date(s)  to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of 
classes.   
 
G. Protection  of Students  Against Discrimination  and Harassment: 
• Sexual Misconduct/S exual Harassment Reporting: USFSM is committed to 
providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and 
sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004). 
• Other  Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USFSM also is committed to 
providing an environment free from discrimination and harassment based on race, color, 
marital status, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, sexual 
orientation, gender identity and expression, or veteran status (USF System Policy 0-007). 
 
 
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you can talk about 
incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-based 
crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relati onship violence. This confidential resource 
can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and 
Responsibilities (OSRR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO),  
unless you request that they make a report. 
 
Please  be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators  
must report incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, gender-
based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/rela tionship violence. If a student 
discloses any of these situations in class, in papers, or to a faculty member personally , he or she 
is required to report it to OSSR  or DIEO  for investigation. Students who are victims or who 
have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment are encouraged to report it to either 
OSSR or D I E O .  
 
H.   Web Portal Information:   Every newly enrolled USF student receives an official USF e -mail 
account.  Students receive official USF correspondence and Canvas course information via that  address.  The web portal is accessed at http://my.usf.edu . 
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS  
• Academic Support Services:  
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study spaces, 
computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  The Information 
Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, tutors, and technology and e -
learning specialists. S tudents challenged by the rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or 
other course content are urged to contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a 
plan for academic success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning  
Support Services ( http://www.usfsm.edu/academics/academic -resources/information -
commons/tutoring.aspx ) which are provided at no cost to students.  
 
• Career Success Center:  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, mentoring, and 
internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate school or seeking employment, 
Career Services can help develop a plan to reach their next destina tion.  Students can prepare 
professional documents, practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school 
information sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appointment with career 
advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services . 
 
LEARNING SUPPORT and CAMPUS OFFICES  
 
Tampa Campus  
 Tutoring Hub: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to 
USF undergraduates. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For 
more information, email asctampa@usf.edu   
Writing Studio: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate 
and graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will 
work individually with you, at any point in the writing process from 
brainstorming t o editing. Appointments are recommended, but not required. For 
more information or to make an appointment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
Counseling Center: The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the 
camp us community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, 
prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. 
Contact information is available online .  
Center for Victim Advocacy: The Center for Victim Advocacy empowers 
survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the restoration of decision 
making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resource s. 
Contact information is available online .  
St. Petersburg 
Campus  
 Student Success Center: The Student Success Center provides free tutoring 
and writing consultations. Contact information is available online .  
Wellness Center: The Wellness Cente r provides counseling and medical 
services, as well as prevention programs and victim advocacy. Contact 
information is available online .  
Sarasota -Manatee 
Campus  
 Tutoring and Writing Support: Learning Support Services provides free 
tutoring and writing consultations for a variety of courses and subjects such as, 
Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Math & Statistics, Physics, and 
Spanis h. Make an appointment online .  
Counseling and Wellness Center: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a 
confidential resource where you can t alk about incidents of discrimination and  harassment, including sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, 
stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
Victim Advocate: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 50 4-
8599. For assistance leave a message with your phone number and your call will 
be returned as soon as possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist 
victims of crime, sexual assault, and partner violence.  
 
COURSE FAQ  
How to communicate with me?  
You can either (i) send me an email directly or through Canvas, or (ii) call /text me or (iii) set up an 
appointment to see me in my office. When emailing directly or through Canvas, please write the 
appropriate subject and include  your name at the bottom of the email. The emails should be composed 
professionally and the language should  be courteous and respectful.  
  
How NOT to communicate with me?  
1. Please do not email me from a non -USF email account.  
2. Please do not submit deliverables to me through email. All deliverables must be submitted 
through Canvas.  
3. Please do not reply to an ema il that I send to the entire class without changing the subject line, 
unless your question is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get 
my email address in the “To” line, please change the subject line and also delete all pr evious text 
from that email, if your email pertains to something else.  
 
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will send announcements through Canvas. The announcements should arrive in your inbox. If you 
send me an email through Canvas, I will respond back  through Canvas. If you send me an email 
directly, I will respond back to your email address. I will make every attempt to reply to your emails 
within 24 hours during weekdays. I cannot guarantee a response within 24 hours on weekends. 
Occasionally emails do tend to go to my Junk Mail folder so if you have not received my response 
within 24 hours, please either resend your email or call my office phone number and leave a message 
in case I am not in my office. I will provide feedback on your assignments thro ugh Canvas.  
 
How to Succeed in this Class?    
• Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements: I will periodically send emails and 
announcements. I encourage you check them daily.  
• Read the syllabus:   It is a lot of trouble  to prepare so detailed a syllabus. You should assume I 
had a reason for it. I want to make sure that you understand the course structure and 
expectations and have your questions answered on the first week. This will help us all have a 
more productive semester. Please read  every wo rd in this syllabus by end of the first week and 
ask me questions.  
• Complete the reading assignments:   You will get a lot more out of this class if you complete 
the assigned readings. In my experience, students who don't complete the reading either never 
complete it or try to cram it all in just before the exams. That doesn't work. Most of the time, 
unsatisfactory grades are due to procrastination than any other cause. Please give yourself 
ample time each week to complete the work for this class.  
• Watch the recorded lectures:  Each module will include a short video. All my lectures are 
prepared by me and as a result contain topics that I think are the most important in the course. 
So, please watch them.   • Do not procrastinate on completing assignments :  You cann ot pass the course without doing 
at least most of the assignments. The homework assignments build upon one another. If you get 
behind, you will find it very difficult to catch up.  
• Complete the quizzes:  Completing the quizzes will prepare you for the exams. So, I encourage 
you to complete them by the due dates.  
 
 
 
   COURSE SCHEDULE:  
Tentative  Course  Schedule  
 
Week  Description  
1 
 Introduction  to Project Management  
  Project Management and Information Technology Context, Team Project Assignments  
2   Project Management Process Group  
3   Project Integration Management  
4   Project Scope Management  
5   Project Schedule Management  
6   Project Cost Management  
7   Project Quality Management  
8   Project Resource Management  
9   Project Communications Management  
10   Project Risk Management  
  Project Procurement Management  
11   Project Stakeholder Management  
  Brief Guide to Microsoft Project Professional 2016  
12   Team Project Presentations  
  Final Exam  
 