 1 ISM 6137:  Statistical Data Mining  
Sec 001, CRN 19668, M 8:30a -12:15p, BSN 230  
Sec 902, CRN 22648,  M 6:30p -10:15p,  BSN 2304  
Spring  Semester 2023 
 
Professor: Dr. Anol Bhattacherjee                                                                                        Office: CIS 2065  
E-mail: ABhatt@usf.edu                                                             Office Hours: M 5-6 pm or b y appointment  
Website: http://ab2020.weebly.com                                                                  Office Phone: (813) 974 -6760  
Teaching Assistant:  Enock Chemochek  TA E -mail: echemochek@usf.edu  
 
Course Overview:  
 
This is the second course in a two -course sequence on statistical modeling of data. It will examine 
advanced statistical models for handling different kinds  of data where linear regression is not applicable, 
such as count data, mixed -level data, classification data, survival data, and temporal data, using the R 
language . More than learning specific tools, the focus of the course will be on thinking about , structuring, 
and solving industry -grade problems business  analytics problems in retail, service, healthcare, and other  
sector s. This is a “thinking” course that will require a significant amount of time, effort, and attention on 
your part. Prior knowledge of linear models and R are required for this class.  
 
Learning Objectives:  
 
To learn how to:  
• Frame , structure , and systematically  complex business  analytics problems . 
• Plan, conduct, and document real-world analytics project  from start to end . 
• Model count, mixed -level, classification, temporal, survival , and other types of complex  data that 
don’t lend themselves to simple linear regression . 
• Preprocess data and engineer fe atures from the data before  analysis.  
• Interpret these models meaningfully to generate useful and usable insights . 
• Examine if our models are robust and will hold up in the real world.  
• Use data and analytics correctly and ethical ly. 
 
Cour se Prerequisite : 
 
The prerequisite for this course is QMB 6304 (Analytical Methods for Business ). Students must be 
comfortable with building different kinds of linear models in R prior to this class.  
 
Grading:  
 
Grade components and weights:  
Individual Assignments  (eight ) 50% 
Exams  (two) 35% 
Team  Project ( one) 15% 
 
Grading scale:  A+: Over 97%, A: 93 -97%, A -: 90-93%, B+: 87 -90%, B: 83 -87%, B -: 80-83%, C+: 77 -
80%, C: 73 -77%, C -: 70-73%, D+: 67 -70%, D: 63 -67%, D -: 60-63%, F: Below 60%  
 
Books and Materials:  
 
Textbook:  None.  Materials for this class has been sourced from many books and online /offline sources  as 
well as the professor’s personal knowledge of statistical modeling .  2  
Readings, slides, data sets, and other materials:  Available on Canvas.  
 
Hardware/software: A Window s or Mac laptop. Download and install: (1) the R software from 
http://cran.r -project.org  and (2) R -Studio from https://www.rstudio.com . Bring your laptop computer 
EVERY  class  for in-class  exercises.  
 
Assignments : 
 
Assignments are due at the start of class  on their assigned dates . Assignments must be submitted on 
Canvas and are date -stamped when submitted. Late assignments are NOT acceptable after I give out my 
solutions in class . You are welcome to help each other with the assignment s, but each assignment must 
represent your own effort. Copying answers  from each other or from prior students of this class  will be 
viewed as “plagiarism ” and will earn you a  zero grade on that assignment  for the first offense, F grade for 
the class  for the second offense, and dismissal from the MS -BAIS program for the third offense .  
 
Exam s: 
 
There will be two exams  during the semester . Each exam  will ask you  to solve one problem, similar to the 
assignments, and you will be graded based on not just what you did, but also on your thought process, 
approach to solving the problem, and simplicity and clarity  of your code. Exams are open -book, open -
notes, and open -Internet and  similar to “screening test s” conducted  by companies like Google or 
Microsoft. If you attended all classes and paid  attention in clas s, complete d all assignments  on your own , 
and continuously try to improve  your own solutions , you should have no problems with the exams .  
 
Please do NOT miss any exam  without a documented medical or family emergency. A “documented 
emergency” must be accompanied with appropriate documentation such as a doctor’s note. Make -up 
exams  will be different from, and potentially harder than, the regular exams .  
 
Team  Project : 
 
This term project, to be done in teams of 3 -4 students, is the heart of this class. In this project, you will 
apply the statistical concepts and methods you learned in class to solve a real -world “serious” data 
analytics problem. Examples of team projects may include: (1) strategies to reduce police violence in 
America, (2) strategies to reduce customer churn in an industry, (3) strategies to reduce America’s mental 
health crisis. You will identify  a decision -making scenario of business  or social relevance, source  
appropriate data, clean and merge the data  as needed , use the right model s, and derive actionable insights . 
Please avoid classification problems as that is not the focus of this class.  
 
Your  project report (10 -12 pages , plus  appendix)  must include the following sections: (1) executive 
summary; (2) problem definition & significance; (3) prior literature; (4) data source  & preparation ; (5) 
variable choice; (6) descriptive analysis  & data visualizations ; (7) data modeling; ( 8) quality checks; ( 9) 
actionable recommendations ; and ( 10) references; and (1 1) appendix (with R code) .  The project report 
must  be sufficient ly detailed , include appropriate graphics, and be of professional quality. Intermediate 
project deliverables are due at different points in time during the semester and the final  project report is 
due at the end of the semester. See project report assignment on Canvas for further details . Sample 
projects are posted on Canvas.   
 
Note that d ata sourcing and cleaning are very much integral and graded components of this project. A 
Kaggle or UCI dataset of unknown quality is unacceptable, and will get you zero points on data 
sourcing/cleaning sections of  the project. Kaggle  data is okay for personal learning, but not for serious 
analysis. Please use authentic data sources that fully describe  the data collection process , which you must  3 discuss in your report . Your project t opic and data source s must be pre approved by me before you can 
start working on your project.  
 
Your professor will compare your projects with similar projects on the Internet /Github , run a plagiarism 
check, and ask you to explain your work. Feel free to browse online  projects  and learn from them, but 
your work must be sufficiently original  and useful. Downloading a nd submitting a n online project, with 
minor modifications, will be considered “plagiarism” and get the entire project team  a zero grade .  
 
The professor is available to help you with your project throughout the semester. Use this free help. 
Please also use this project as an opportunity to showcase  what you learned inside and outside class. A 
well-done project can help you get internships and jobs.  I do give extra -credit to teams who surpass my 
expectations, experiment with new methods and tools, and help the class learn something new.   
 
E-mail me the names of your team members and a tentative topic for your project before the second day 
of class. Choose  your team membe rs “wisely ”, making  sure that you have team members  proficient in  the 
domain knowledge , in reading and understanding  technical papers,  and in writing professional -quality 
report s. If someone in your team does not deliver or is late with their assigned work or rarely comes to 
team meetings, you have the option to fire that person  by majority vote.   
 
Class  Policies:  
 
Since this  a business class, I expect a certain level of business p rofessionalism  in this class. This means 
coming to class on time, not making excuses , not plagiarizing assignments , timely completion of assigned 
work, willingness to learn things on your own, managing your team project like a professional work 
project with weekly scrum s and reviews, etc. Lack of professionalism  will be penalized appropriately.  
 
For USF polic ies and procedures regarding academic integrity, academic grievance, COVID -19, disability 
access, religious observances, sexual misconduct , harassment, and academic continu ity, please visit 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
Class Schedule  
 
Week  Date  Topic  Due  
1 Feb 6  Introduction & Regression Refresher  - 
2 Feb 13  OLS  Assumptions  A1: Credit Rating ,  
P1: Names & Project Topic  
3 Feb 20  WLS/FGLS & Non-Linear Models   A2: Hunters Green Home Sales  
4 Feb 27  GLM  & Poisson Models  A3: Medical Expense  
 Mar 06  No Class – Professor out of town   
 Mar 13  No Class – Spring Break   
5 Mar 20  Multi -level and Panel Data Models  A4: Online Retail Campaign  
6 Mar 27  MIDTERM EXAM  P2: Prior Work & Variable Selection  
7 Apr 03  Survival Models  A5: Big Mart Sales   
8 Apr 10  Classification Models  A6: Lung Cancer  
9 Apr 17  Time -Series Models  A7: Telco Churn  
10 Apr 24  Special Topics: Tobit Regression, Beta 
Regression, Simultaneous Equation 
Model s A8: Pricing & Promotions Analysis for a  
Retail Chain, P3 : Project Presentations  
11 May 01  FINAL EXAM  P4: Project Report  
 