         1        Instructor: Dr. Triparna de Vreede  E-Mail: tdevreede@usf.edu Office: CIS 2063 Phone: 813-974-1776  Term: Spring 2023  Dates: 1/9/23 – 5/4/23 Course Prerequisites/ Minimum  Technical Skills & Requirements:  There are no course prerequisites.  Minimum technical skills: Ability to navigate Canvas, use Google Docs, tele-collaborative platforms (e.g., Blackboard Collaborate Ultra)  Minimum technical requirements: Computer, Internet connection, Microsoft Word and PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat Reader, Canvas Office Hours:  By Appointment  
 Introduction It is an honor and a privilege to be accepted into the internship course.  We have allocated significant resources to support your success in the program.  We expect the same commitment from you. Your success in this course depends on an extreme level of self-motivation, maturity and professional work ethic. An attitude of optimism and ambition will serve to create the optimal experience. Research shows an 18%-20% salary advantage in students who successfully complete internships. This course fulfills a General Education requirement for Integrative and Applied Learning.  
 Instructor Contact Information and Communication  It is my goal to be available to you as frequently as you need. If you have any questions, concerns, and/or just want to chat, please feel free to email me directly at tdevreede@usf.edu or call me at 813-974-1776 or message me on Teams App. I will respond as soon as possible. However, please give me up to 48 hours to reply.  
 First Day Attendance Policy Students have to complete a syllabus quiz by Friday of the first week of classes to continue enrollment in class. Students who do not complete the quiz will be removed from the course.  
 University Course Description This 3-credit hour course includes an academic component that focuses on professional development skills and an on-site experiential learning experience component. Prior to the on-site experience students will work on professional development skills that can translate to the on-site experience and their careers. The on-site experience is expected to average 10 hours per week for a total of 120 hours over the course of the semester and provide students with valuable industry experience and the ability to apply their knowledge of business/industry practices.  
    MAN/ISM 4940 Internship  MUMA College of Business  Course Syllabus 2 
 Course Prerequisites: To be eligible for the course the student must have at least 80 credits and a 2.75 GPA on business courses. Student must also have an active internship offer that has been approved by the me for the semester that the student is applying for internship.  
 Course Objectives  The expectation is that students will: • Grow and develop professionally. • Develop a portfolio of experience needed to succeed in business/industry. • Develop critical-thinking skills. • Develop communication skills. • Assess business situations using ethical knowledge and skills.  
 Learning Outcomes: • Students will engage in meaningful critical reflection in required coursework. • Under professional oversight, students will utilize contextually appropriate behaviors, tools, techniques and/or dispositions. • Students will integrate discipline-specific knowledge into the contextualized experience. • Students will apply classroom knowledge to critically consider and address issues. • Students will synthesize discipline-appropriate learning via a culminating assignment. • Students will provide discipline appropriate evidence of their learning in the course via a culminating assignment. 
 Course Materials (optional) • All course materials required for the course will be made available on Canvas 
 Assignments Complete Qualtrics Survey Concerning Your Internship – click on this link The anonymous link to complete a brief survey about your internship.  Component I: Academic Component Related to Professional Development 1. Goals paper - Identify and discuss career and internship goals 2. Internship Preparatory Quiz – recognize appropriate protocols in the business environment 3. Business etiquette assignment – recognize appropriate protocols in the business environment 4. Job interview assignment – demonstrate communication skills, understanding of business protocols and poise in the interview process 5. Resume - Prepared by the student and reviewed by Business Center. a. Submit your current resume at the beginning of the semester.  b. By the end of the semester, submit a revised resume to include the internship experience.  c. Consult and cite at least two sources for resume writing tips and improving resume presentation.  Component II: On-site Experiential Learning 1. Internship Workplan (1-2 pages double-spaced): meet with and go through an on-boarding process with the internship organization and in concert with the internship organization develop a work plan that establishes at least three project experiences and learning objective(s) related to each. 3 2. Company Profile (1-2 pages double-spaced): provide a summary of the company, its industry, its customer and suppliers.  3. Organization Analysis (3-4 pages double-spaced): identify one weakness or threat that the company is currently experiencing or will potentially experience. Through an organizational and industry analysis, you will offer potential solutions or opportunities for the company. In other words, how did you provide value to the organization? More details on Canvas. 4. Experience Summary (Written Evaluation and Portfolio) (2-3 pages double-spaced): at the conclusion of the internship evaluate the academic and work experience and provide samples of your work product(s). Provide a summary of the projects, tasks, or daily routines you encounter during your internship. What did you learn from them and how have they helped you develop skills that will benefit you one you complete your studies? In other words, in what way was working for this organization a learning experience? More details on Canvas.  Component III – Evaluation of On-Site Experiential Learning 1. Intern Evaluation by Supervisor (download evaluation form from Canvas): the internship organization will evaluate the performance of the student using a form developed by the College of Business. NOTE: An unsatisfactory performance report by the internship organization will result in a Failing grade.  Component IV: Final Report 1. Online presentation (slide show) of component II highlighting the company profile, your experiences with the organization, and your contribution to the organization. The slide show should be professionally done and be between 6-10 slides. Should be accompanied by a voice over.  2. Internship Project Report: Compilation of the four Component II sub sections into one single pdf file. Make sure to add a title page.  
 Grading Scheme Percent Grade Percent Grade 97 - 100 A+ 77-79 C+ 94 - 96 A 74-76 C 90-93 A- 70-73 C- 87-89 B + 67-69 D+ 84-86 B 64-66 D 80-83 B- 60-63 D-  NOTE: Contact information of supervisor and internship evaluation by supervisor is mandatory. Please check with your supervisor prior to enrolling in the course. If your supervisor does not agree to provide an evaluation, your internship will not be accepted. If already enrolled, you will receive a failing grade in the course for absent or poor supervisor evaluation.  
 Grading Policy Late Work Policy: Any assignments that are passed in more than 10 days after the due date will automatically receive an Unsatisfactory (U) grade. 4  Grades of "Incomplete": An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 General Education Statement This course is part of the University of South Florida's Enhanced General Education Curriculum. It is certified for High Impact Practice. As such, this internship will help prepare you for your career by providing you with relevant career related experiences in a work environment.  Students enrolled in this course will be asked to participate in the USF General Education assessment effort. This will involve submitting copies of writing assignments for review via Canvas.  
 USF Institutional Policies   Information regarding these policies are standard, many of which can be reviewed through the hyperlink (https://www.usf.edu/undergrad/policies/index.aspx) if so desired. Some are only necessary if applicable.  1. Incomplete grades - The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course. An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  2. General Attendance Policy  o http://ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/1819/pdf/general-attendance.pdf    3. Early Notification Requirement for Observed Religious Days - Students who anticipate the necessity of being absent from class due to the observation of a major religious observance must provide notice of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, at the beginning of the term.  o http://regulationspolicies.usf.edu/policies-and-procedures/pdfs/policy-10-045.pdf   4. Academic Integrity of Students - Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental 5 values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The process for faculty reporting of academic misconduct, as well as the student’s options for appeal, are outlined in detail in USF System Regulation 3.027: http://www.usf.edu/undergrad/documents/academic-policies/1academic-integrity-of-students.pdf. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.  5. Disruption of the Academic Process - Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of self or other persons.  6. Student Academic Grievance Procedures - The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students. (https://usf.app.box.com/v/usfpolicy10-002)  7. Students with Disabilities - Any student with a disability is encouraged to meet with me privately during the first week of class to discuss accommodations.  Each student must provide a current Memorandum of Accommodations from the Office of Student Accessibility Services, which is a prerequisite for receiving accommodations.    Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SAS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SAS must accompany this request.  8. Title IX Policy: Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking. The Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and 6 provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.  Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit: https://www.usf.edu/title-ix/gethelp/resources.aspx. If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813-974-5756 or va@admin.usf.edu.  8. In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use to compare each student’s assignment quickly and easily with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.    7 Internship Schedule for Submissions (All submissions are ONLINE and are due by 11:59 PM of the date specified)  
 Assignment   Component I: Academic Component Related to Professional Development 1. Syllabus Quiz (Mandatory Attendance) 2. Goals Paper 3. Internship Prep Quiz 4. Resume (Initial) 5. Letter of Offer 6. Job Description and Employer Contact Information  Component II: On-site Experiential Learning 1. Company Profile 2. Experience Summary 3. Internship Workplan 4. Problem Solving / Organization Analysis Paper  Component III – Evaluation of on-site experiential learning 1. Intern Evaluation (by Supervisor) • Student downloads evaluation Form from Canvas • Students hands the evaluation form to supervisor • Supervisor completes evaluation form and emails to tdevreede@usf.edu   Component IV: Final Report 1. Final Presentation 2. Completed Internship Project Report  3. Updated Professional Resume  