Page 1 of 11 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Semester : Spring 2023  
Class Meeting Days : Thursday  
Class Meeting Time : 12:30 PM – 4:15 PM 
Class Meeting Location :  BSN 120 
Instructor : Dr. Priya Dozier  
Office Location : LPH 4 30 (St. Petersburg)  
Office Hours : Virtual via MS- Teams by appointment  
Phone Number : 727-873-4896  
Email : Please use Canvas email  to communicate because  it automatically includes the course 
information keeps student emails separate from all other communication.  
 
 
I. Welcome to Enterprise Information Systems Management  
This capstone course is an opportunity for Master of Science Business Analytics and Information 
Systems (MS BAIS) to gain insights into opportunities and challenges of decision -making in 
contemporary business situations. This course bridges the gap between  technology 
systems/projects and strategic/tactical business decisions through the rich context of actual 
decisions made by business leaders when managing information systems.  
Successful students will leave  with:  
a) Insights into how organizational strategy  and leadership can influence the selection, 
deployment, and utilization of technology solutions.  
b) Opportunities to practice critical thinking, communication, and leadership skills.  
c) Tools to develop a personal strategy for continued employability within th e context of 
emerging business trends.  
 
II. University Course Description  
Development of enterprise transaction processing applications using procedural or object -
oriented programming languages, relational database management, database sharing, CASE 
methodolog y and project management techniques. Students will work in groups on semester 
projects.  (USF Catalog: https://catalog.usf.edu/ ) 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
ISM6124  with a minimum grade of C  
ISM6218  with a minimum grade of C  ISM6155:  
Enterprise Information Systems Management  
10524, Section # 902, Credit Hours 3  
MUMA College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS 
Last Updated: 1/31/2023  
Page 2 of 11 
 IV. How to Succeed in this Course  (4 P’s)  
The following are key factors to consider to be successful in this course:  
1. Prepare : Successful completion of this course will require significant and consistent 
preparation.  
2. Plan: All due dates are included in this syllabus and on Canvas , so please review these dates 
and plan accordingly to ensure that you can commit to the due dates. In  most cases, students 
can work ahead on posted assignments . Please plan to do so if you have other commitments  
(ex. travel, work, vacation, etc.). 
3. Plug in : Canvas announcements will be used to communicate with students . Please review 
your Canvas notifications to ensure that you receive the most up -to-date information for this 
course.  
4. Participate : Do not sit back and watch others participate -  stay active in the discussions. 
Additionally, add your own unique perspective to the discussions versus repeating wh at 
others read in the cases. Consider injecting your own experiences or other real -world 
examples to support conclusions and/or questions.  
 
V. Course Topics  
This capstone course is designed to provide graduates of the MS BAIS program with opportunit ies 
to demonstrate effective critical thinking, problem -solving, and communication skills. Students will 
assess and analyze real- world problems related to technical, analytical, and managerial challenges 
through cases, simulations , and project s.  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, students will be able to:  
1. Identify key challenges that can arise in the complex interactions between individual and 
organizational forces  in the life cycle of IT related products.  
2. Present an in -depth an alysis of a business case using effective written and oral 
communication skills.  
3. Demonstrate familiarity with the processes associated with managing a technology -focused 
business es. 
4. Prepare and present a data analytics portfolio to demonstrate market read y skills.  
VII. Required Texts, Readings , and Course Materials  
• Students are required to purchase  a course  pack of simulations  via HBR Publishing:  
   https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/1025854    
Note : a link will be available on Canvas for students to purchase the course content directly via 
Harvard Business Publishing. The instructor DOES NOT receive any compensation fo r this material.  
• All other assigned material will be in Canvas, the Learning Management Software (LMS) for 
this course . 
• All students are required to have laptops or mobile devices (fully charged) with them in class 
to participate in classroom activities in this course. No paper assignments will be accepted.  
 
 
 
 Page 3 of 11 
 VIII. Grading Scale  
Final grades will be calculated according to the following points scale.   
Grade Scale  Grading Criteria  
A 90-100%  
B 80-89.99%  
C 70-79.99%  
D 60-69.99%  
F Below  60%  
 
IX. Grade Categories and Weights  
Assignment Type  Estimated 
Time (out of 
classroom)  Points Available  by Deliverable  Total 
Possible 
Points  
6 Case Discussions – 
based on cases 
(Individual)  2-4 hours 
prep per case 
(weekly ) Up to 10 points each as follows:  
1. Pre-case  quiz – up to 5 points  
2. In-class discussion –  up to 2 points  
3. Post -case reflection –  up to 3 points  60 points  
2 Simulations 
(Individual & Group)  1 hour prep 
before class  Simulation participation and individual 
assignments – up to 10 points each.  20 points  
1 Experiential 
Project  (Group)  5 – 10 hours 
per group  
throughout 
semester   Each project will comprise of teams of 5 to 6 
students working together to analyze a real-
world business problem to identify and develop 
solutions using analytical tools acquired in the 
MS-BAIS program . Group Project deliverables 
include (1 submission per group):  
1. Proposal  document – up to 10 points  
2. Project plan –  up to 5 points  
3. Project poster – up to 10 points  
4. Project presentation video – up to 10 points  
5. Peer evaluations –  up to 5 points  40 points  
1 Personal Portfolio 
Project (Individual)  Throughout 
the semester 
– 15 hours  Course project broken into the following 
deliverables:  
1. Planning document – up to 10  points  
2. Portfolio website – up to 10 points  
3. Presentation video –  up to 10 points  30 points  
  Total  150 points  
No late assignments will be accepted, no exceptions. Late assignments will receive a 0 grade.  All work 
must be turned in via Canvas and according to instructions;  all files must be uploaded to Canvas in the 
correct format,  no emailed or linked assignments (e.g., to shared drives) will be accepted.     
 Page 4 of 11 
 X. Grade Dissemination  
All grades for this course will be available at any time using "Grades" in Canvas. Students will be alerted 
via Canv as notifications when grades are released for manually graded assignments (ex. discussion 
posts, assignments).   
 
XI. Course Schedule  
FIRST DAY ATTENDANCE : To remain in this course, you must complete the 1st-day attendance 
assignment  in Canvas by 11:59 PM on February 9 th, 202 3.  Students who do not respond to the 1st-day 
attendance assignment will be dropped from the course. Course schedule updates will be 
communicated via Canvas announcements throughout the semester.  
 
Class Schedule and Due Dates  
Class 
Date  Topic  Items Due  
2/9 Course Introductions and Overview  
• Instructor to students  
• Students to students  
• Course to students  
• Expectations of learning  1st day attendance assignment – to 
remain in the course  
2/16 Case 1 : A Case for Discussion Cases at ReliaQuest (RQ)  
Discussion Topics: cases vs. textbooks, what to expect and 
how to prepare for case discussions, dos/don’ts of cases, 
correct answers?  - Pre-case quiz ( 5 points)  
- In-class discussion ( 2 points)  
- Post -case reflection ( 3 points)  
2/23  Case 2: Jabil Balancing Risk in a New Frontier  
Discussion Topics: Business analytics defined, predictive 
analytics, what is a data scientist, organizational strategy, 
capital investments.  
Homework: Form into groups for experiential project!  - Pre-case quiz (5 points)  
- In-class discussion (2 points)  
- Post -case reflection (3 points)  
3/2 Case 3: ReliaQuest Behind Enemy Lines  
Discussion Topics: Cybersecurity, challenges protecting 
information assets, stakeholder perspective, common types 
of attacks, recovery strategies, CTO role, paying for data  - Pre-case quiz (5 points)  
- In-class discussion (2 points)  
- Post -case reflection (3 points)  
3/9 Individual Simulation: IT Management Cyber Attack!  
Debrief topics: real- time decision making in a crisis, written 
communication skills  - Pre-case  quiz  
- Simulation Participation Activity  
- Post Simulation Reflection  
 
- Planning document due (10 points)  
3/9 Project Deliverables Due: Proposal & Project Plan  -Group project proposal due  (10 
points)  
-Project plan due (5 points)  
 Spring Break Holiday – March 13 – 19 (no classes)   
3/23  AI Week: 2 cases – ½ the class will work on Vectra, the other 
½ will work on RPA – both cases will be discussed together.  - Pre-case quiz (5 points)  
- In-class discussion (2 points)  Page 5 of 11 
  
Case 4: Vectra Digital  
Discussion Topics: Deploying an AI tool in Marketing, 
technology acceptance model, technology adoption hurdles, 
client vs. employee expectations and experiences, ethical 
considerations of AI  
OR 
Case 4: RPA at TECHSERV  
Discussion topics: Project management, technology 
management, robotic process automation, infrastructure 
projects, strategic projects   - Post -case reflection (3 points)  
3/30  Case 5: Tesla Innovation and the Growth at the Cost of 
Quality?  
Discussion Topics: competitive advantage, innovation, quality 
improvements (technical projects), technology investments, 
product strategy and technology projects  - Pre-case quiz (5 points)  
- In-class discussion (2 points)  
- Post -case reflection (3 points)  
4/6 Case 6: Satya Nadella Leading with Growth Mindset 
Discussion Topics: organizational culture, cultural change, 
learning organization, fixed vs. growth mindset, authentic 
leadership  - Pre-case quiz (5 points)  
- In-class discussion (2 points)  
- Post -case reflection (3 points)  
 
4/13  Team Simulation: Everest V3 Leadership and Working in 
Teams  
Debrief topics: complex decision -making with unevenly 
distributed information and conflicting goals, 
building/participating/leading effective teams, leader 
decision -making paradigm (short vs. long -term tradeoffs)  - Pre-case quiz  
- Simulation Participation Activity   
- Post Simulation reflection  
4/20  work on project deliverables; online synchronous support 
available  -Group project poster due (10 
points)  
-Group project video due (10 points)  
-Peer evaluations due (5 points)  
4/27 No class  – Test Free Week  
work on project deliverables; online synchronous support 
available  - Individual project – portfolio 
website due  
- Individual project –  video 
presentation due  
5/4 End of Spring Term   
 
XII. Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity 
and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a 
central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 Page 6 of 11 
 XIII. Covid -19 Procedures  
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 mitigation 
measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing.  Failure to do so 
may result in dismissal from class, referral to the Student Conduct Office and Ethical Development, 
and possible removal from campus.  See link for more details: https://www.usf.edu/coronavirus/  
 
Additional details are available on the University’s Co re Syllabus Policy Statements page: 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XIV. Course Policies  
The fol lowing outlines the general policies for the major assessments in this course. Specific 
expectations will be posted in the instructions for each assignment on Canvas.  
 
Case Assignments:  
Cases are used as a primary teaching tool in this course because they provide insights into 
complex business topics using real -world scenarios faced by business leaders. The cases assigned 
in this course focus on decision -making related to enterprise techn ology systems. Students must 
come to class prepared to discuss the assigned cases each week.  
• Before class : students must complete a pre -case assignment, due before  the assigned 
class. Students will take a brief quiz containing case details as the pre -case  assignment.  
• During class : students must  participate in class discussions, using their pre -case 
preparation as a guide. Students may be randomly called on in class to discuss various 
aspects of the case, which may count as participation.  
• After class : students are expected to submit a post- case reflection to highlight their key 
learnings from the case. Each post -case reflection must include the in -class discussion 
topics and activities and must not summarize the case again.  
All written work must be submitted according to  business writing style at the graduate level.  
Please contact the USF Writing Studio immediately for assistance with writing assignments, if 
writing is a skill you’d like to continue to improve in this course ( USF Writing Studio ). 
 
Course Project  (Individual) : 
A major course deliverable in this course is a final project that gives students an opportunity to 
demonstrate their learnings from the MSBAIS program. All project assignments must be submitted 
through Canvas as a Word document, PDF document, or Video file  (based on instructions) by the 
assigned due date and time. All written submissions will be analyzed using Turnitin, which is a 
plagiarism detection tool (see Turnitin section below) .  
 
Simulations:  
Students will have opportunities to participate in simulations that mimic business activities. All 
students who participate in the activities will have an opportunity to earn points, based on:  
- The level of participation by each student  
- The outcome/results of the simulation  
- Thoughtful reflections on learnings  
Students will be guided through each simulation during class time. The reflection assignment is 
designed to allow students an opportunity to practice their communication skills through a self -
reflective activity.  
 Page 7 of 11 
 Rewrite Policy : Rewrites are not available in this course.   
 
Make -up Assignments Policy : Makeup assignment opportunities will be given only for emergencies  
within one week of the original due date.  Students must discuss any reason for missing an 
assignment due date with the instructor in advance of the due date unless the circumstances make 
such advance notice impossible. Written documentation must be provi ded to support any reason for 
missing assignment. There are only 6 reasons why a student will be given a makeup assignment 
opportunity:  
1. Medical purpose -  Students must produce a doctor’s note stating when and why he/she was 
unable to meet the due date.  
2. Death in the immediate family : Students must provide evidence that he/she was in 
attendance (or in transit to/from) a funeral on the assignment due date.  
3. Major religious holidays: Students must notify the instructor of the conflict within the first 2 
weeks  of class.  
4. Varsity athletic events: a member of a USF athletic team may arrange for a makeup due 
date if a regularly scheduled League contest or post -season play falls on an assignment due 
date. A note from the coach will be required to validate the student’s absence.  
5. Jury duty: Students must provide evidence, i.e., letter from the court, that he/she will be 
involved in jury duty.  
6. Military call up: the  appropriate commanding officer must submit a letter indicating the 
student is required to report for du ty.  
The instructor will decide on the validity of the reason for missing a due date.  
 
Medical Excuses:  
Students should not attend class if they are ill, particularly if they have fever and/or gastrointestinal 
symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as  a sneezing, runny nose, sore  throat  or 
coughing.  Students experiencing any of these symptoms  should  contact  immediately the  Student Health 
Services (813 -974-2331)  on the Sarasota- Mantatee  and Tampa campus or  the Wellness Center (727 -873-
4422) on the St. Petersburg campus  for appropriate medical guidance and to obtain a verification of care 
letter.   Students may turn to other health providers as well.  To be approved for missed classes, late 
assignments or missed examinations a ver ification of care letter must be presented by the student to 
the faculty member upon return to class.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy :  
Commentary on written will be delivered in written format using the Feedback feature of Canvas and 
any applicable rubric.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled per the University’s final examination 
policy.  
Grades of "Incomplete" : An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" 
Grade Con tract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated 
and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate 
courses and one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. 
An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for Page 8 of 11 
 graduate courses (includ ing summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract. Students 
are expected to communicate with the instructor regarding “I” grades before grades are submitted to 
the registrar’s office (students will be notified via Canvas email of submission date).  
XV. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food ins ecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses at USF . Be sure to review 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.a spx   
 
Note: there is a zero -tolerance policy related to cheating, as defined in the academic integrity policy, in 
this course. Any student caught cheating in this course will be referred to the college and  to the  
Univer sity, according to the procedures outlined.  
 
XVI. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Minimum Requirements :  
To take courses online at USF, students will need to be able to demonstrate proficiency at basic 
computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system requirements listed 
here: http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student- services/technical-
requirements.aspx  
 
Email :  
Please use the email functionality within Canvas as the primary mode to contact the instructor because 
it provides insights into the student’s course section automatically. If you use Canvas e mail, then every 
attempt will be made to respond to emails within 24 hours, 7 days per week. If you do not receive a 
response within 48 hours, then please send an email again and in the subject line list “ ISM6155  – 2nd 
request”. Due to confidentiality issues, grades will not be released via email or telephone, all grades will 
be available in Canvas.  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's 
IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Copyrights:  
Materials in this course are protected by United States copyright law [Title 17, U.S. Code]. Materials are 
presented in an educational context for personal use and study and should not be shared, distributed, or 
sold in print —or digitally —outside the course without permission.  Students in this class are not 
authorized to provide class notes or other class -related materials to any other person or entity, other 
than sharing them directly with another student taking the class for purposes of studying, without prior 
written permission from the professor teaching this course.  
 
XVII. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Honorlock Online Proctoring Policy : 
All students  mus t review the syllabus  and the requirements,  including the online  terms  and video  testing  
requirements,  to determine if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in the course  is an agreement  to abide  Page 9 of 11 
 by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect  to drop or withdraw  from this course  before the end of the 
drop/add period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  proctoring.  Therefore,  students  will be required  to 
have  a webcam (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam or quiz.  Students  understand that this 
remote recording device is purchased and controlled  by the student  and that recordings  from  any private  
residence must  be done  with  the permission  of any person  residing in the residence.   
To avoid  any concerns  in this regard,  students  should select  private  spaces  for the testing.  Students  with  concerns  
may  discuss  location  of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  their  instructor  or advisor.   
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third -party  privacy  rights  and accept  all responsibility  
and liability  for violations  of any third -party  privacy  concerns.   
Students  are strictly  responsible  for ensuring  that they  take  all exams  using  a reliable  computer  and high -speed  
internet  connection.  Setup information  will be provided prior  to taking  the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock, 
students  are required  to download  and install  the Honorlock  Google Chrome extension . For additional  information  
please visit the USF online proctoring  student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .  
 
Attendance Policy: Students are expected to independently keep up with the pace of this course to 
succeed.  
 
Course Hero Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, 
such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to 
CourseHero.com – any use of this website (including uploading materials) con stitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued.  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized  on all written submissions . Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to compare each student’s assignment quickly and easily with billions of web 
sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Ac cordingly, 
you will be expected to submit all assignments in an electronic format. After the assignment is 
processed, as an instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s 
work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
The Writing Studio:  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the Writing 
Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you at any point in the writing process 
from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended . To make an appointment, visit 
https://www.usf.edu/undergrad/academic -success -center/writing -
studio/ http://www.lib.usf.edu/writing/ , stop by LIB 2nd Floor, or call 813 -974-8293.  
 
Health and Wellness:  
Your health is a priority at the University of South Florida. We encourage members of our community to 
look out for each another and to reach o ut for help if someone is in need. If you or someone you know is 
in distress, please make a referral at www.usf.edu/sos  so that the Student Outreach & Support can Page 10 of 11 
 contact and provide h elpful resources to the student in distress. A 24 -hour licensed mental healthcare 
professional, offered through the counseling center, is available by phone at 813 -974-2831, option 3. 
Please remember that asking for help is a sign of strength. In case of e mergency, please dial 9 -1-1. 
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on 
pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF 
has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any 
disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes 
every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss possible 
options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in 
person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of  resources please 
visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title- ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim 
Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options –  at 813- 974- 5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Confidential Resources (listed below)  are available and will not be required to notify the Title IX office of 
disclosures of sexual harassment. If you are not sure what to do , you are encouraged to contact Victim 
Advocacy to confidentially explore your options including: injunctions & protecti ve orders; changes in 
accommodations, living arrangements, class schedules, & transportation; assistance with academic 
Issues- missed classes, late assignments, etc.  The Title IX Office can also provide academic, on -campus 
housing and USF workplace accommo dations, as well as other supportive measures.  
 
CONFIDENTIAL RESOURCES  NONCONFIDENTIAL RESOURCES  
Victim Advocacy in the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4432  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/victim -advocacy -services/index.aspx   Title IX  
813-974-4373  
https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/ 
Counseling at the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4422  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/psychological -services/index.aspx   Student Outreach & Support  
PMB 101  
727-873-4278  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/student -outreach -program/   
Ombudsman  
Free, confidential conflict resolution  
PNM 105B  
727-873-4184  
https://wwwtest.stpetersburg.usf.edu/resources  
/ombuds.aspx  Student Conduct & Ethical Development  
PNM 101B  
727-873-4278  
Usfsp -conduct@usf.edu   
https://www.usf.edu/student -
affairs/student -conduct -ethical-
development/ab out-us/contacts.aspx   
Student Health Services at the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4422  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/index.aspx   Dean of Students  
PNM 101  
727-873-4278  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/dean -of-students/   
OFF CAMPUS CONFIDENTIAL  OFF CAMPUS NONCONFIDENTIAL  
Suncoast Center  
Rape Crisi s Center  Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office  
10750 Ulmerton Rd  Page 11 of 11 
 2188 58th St N 
Clearwater, FL 33760  
727-388-1220  
https://www.suncoastcenter.org/sexual -assault -services  Largo, FL 33778  
Nonemergency: 727 -582-6200 
Emergency: 911 
https://www.pcsoweb.com/   
CASA  
Domes tic Violence Shelter  
1011 First Ave North  
St. Petersburg, FL 33705 
24/7 Hotline: 727- 895-4912 
https://www.casa -stpete.org/   St. Petersburg Police Department  
1301 First Ave North  
St. Petersburg, FL 33705 
Nonemergency: 727 -893-7780 
Emergency: 911 
https://police.stpete.org/   
  
 
Campus Free Expression Act Disclaimer : 
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent 
with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find uncomfortable, 
disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) presented can be 
tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain 
ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with 
complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean 
that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Important Dates to Re member  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   