         1        Instructor: Dr. Triparna de Vreede E-Mail: tdevreede@usf.edu Term: Spring 2023 Dates: 1/9/23 – 3/3/23 Delivery Method: Online Location: Online  Course Prerequisites/ Minimum  Technical Skills & Requirements:  In order to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate proficiency at basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system requirements listed here:  http://www.usf.edu/innovative-education/resources/student-services/technical-requirements.aspx Graduate Standing Office Hours:  By Appointment   
 Instructor Contact Information and Communication  My name is Dr. Triparna de Vreede, and I will be your professor for this course. It is my goal to be available to you as frequently as you need. If you have any questions, concerns, and/or just want to chat, please feel free to email me directly at tdevreede@usf.edu, text me on Teams messaging, or call me at 813-974-1776. I will respond as soon as possible. However, please give me up to 48 hours to reply before you send a reminder. Texting on Teams messaging is most optimal for a quick response.  
 First Week Attendance Policy Attendance to the first day of class is mandatory by university policy. Not attending the first day of class results in an automatic drop from the course. In lieu of the first week of attendance, students will complete a syllabus quiz.  
 University Course Description The overall goal of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the cultural challenges and opportunities faced when managing employees in an era of globalization. In addition to teaching students the conceptual knowledge and understanding of international management issues with an emphasis on cultural differences, this course will develop a set of skills and attitudes critical for the success of the international manager. For example, students will develop an understanding of cultural differences and tolerance in cultural diversity, ethical reasoning in decision making, communication skills, interpersonal effectiveness and teamwork in an international context, and an ability to use current business press and electronic sources of international business information.   
 Course Structure  This course is divided into 8 modules. You will have blogs, quizzes, and projects due during the semester.  All assignments are to be submitted by 11:59 pm on the day they are due. To be successful, you must keep up with the readings, online video lectures, and any other assigned material. 
    MAN 6601: International Management Muma College of Business   COURSE SYLLABUS 2  
 Student Learning Outcomes Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: • Demonstrate an understanding of cultural differences and tolerance in cultural diversity. • Describe ethical reasoning in decision making in a global context. • Identify communication challenges across cultural differences and demonstrate ways to adapt in an international environment. • Identify important issues in negotiations in a multicultural environment. • Identify challenges in developing international strategies and entering foreign markets. • Recognize leadership differences and motivating employees in a global context. • Recognize human resource management challenges in an international context.  
 Required Course Materials  All course materials in Canvas are required unless indicated as optional content.  • Case studies • Lecture videos • Presentations  
 Basis for Final Grade   Assessment Percent of Final Grade Case Study Blog and discussion 30% Weekly Quizzes 30% Final Country Project Report  & Presentation 40% Total 100%  3  Percent Grade Percent Grade 98 - 100 A+ 77-79 C+ 94 - 97 A 74-76 C 90-93 A- 70-73 C- 87-89 B + 67-69 D+ 84-86 B 64-66 D 80-83 B- 60-63 D-   
 Submission Guidelines • Due dates for ALL assignments are on Fridays at 11:59 PM. The assignments are available to students until Sundays at 11:59 PM. The weekly quizzes are only available until Fridays, 11:59 PM. • All submissions should be in MS-Word or PDF • Formatting should be 12 Point professional font (e.g., Times New Roman, Calibri, or Arial), Double Spaced, and with 1" margin on all sides   NOTE: Copy-paste of ANY kind is NOT allowed in submissions, discussions, or blogs. All responses (including discussions) will be EVALUATED FOR PLAGIARISMS THROUGH "TURN-IT-IN". Any evidence of plagiarism will result in a 0 in the assignment or F in the course depending on the severity of the offense.   
 Evaluation Details  Weekly Quiz Individual Assignment. On weeks that there is a lecture, students will take an online quiz with multiple choice questions from the video lectures. The quiz will consist of the questions only from the lecture in that module.   Case Study Blog and Discussion Board Individual Assignment. On weeks that there is a case study, students are expected to read the case study thoroughly and express their thoughts on the online blog. The questions pertaining to the case are available in the blog assignment. In addition to the blog, the students are required to respond to two other student questions.    Final Project Report and Presentation Group Assignment. Teams are expected to create a report and presentation on “Living and Working in _______”. The report and presentation need to be aimed at expats getting ready to relocate to the country you are presenting about.  The report should feel and read like a guidebook. Students need to pick a country with a culture significantly different from the United States (different language other than English). Students must seek approval of the professor before picking a country.   4 
 Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  I will respond to email communication relevant to the subject matter within 48 hours of the date received. I will provide feedback on assignments within two weeks of the posted deadline, and feedback on final papers within three weeks of the posted deadline. Graded tests and materials in this course will be returned individually only by request. You can access your scores at any time using "Grades" in Canvas.  
 Course Policies: Grades   Late Work Policy: Late assignments may be downgraded to as low as 0% of the possible grade as per the instructor’s discretion. Each day that the assignment is late results in 5% deduction in possible grade.  Grades of "Incomplete": An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  Assignment Policies Your assignments must be of professional quality. Be certain to check your spelling, punctuation, and grammar. Incomplete, sloppy, disorganized, or unprofessional work will be downgraded. Assignments will be graded both on content and on professional style.   Cheating Cheating or copying will not be tolerated. You are expected to do your own work on the assignments. If you turn in another person’s work as your own, you will receive an F for the course. Please review the information on the plagiarism policy implemented in this course in the Code of Conduct section. Please print & sign the plagiarism statement and hand it in the second week of class.  Cheating is defined as follows: (a) the unauthorized granting or receiving of aid during the prescribed period of a course-graded exercise: students may not consult written materials such as notes or books, many not look at the paper of another student, nor consult orally with any other student taking the same test; (b) asking another person to take an examination in his or her place; (c) taking an examination for or in place of another student; (d) stealing visual concepts, such as drawings, sketches, diagrams, musical programs and scores, graphs, maps, etc. and presenting them as one's own; (e) stealing, borrowing, buying, or disseminating tests, answer keys or other examination material except as officially authorized, research papers, creative papers, speeches, etc.; (f) stealing or copying of computer programs and presenting them as one's own.  Plagiarism Plagiarism is the intentional appropriation of the work, be it ideas or phrasing of words, of another without crediting the source. (Source: Webster’s Dictionary). “By plagiarizing, a student is, in effect, claiming credit for another individual's thinking and expression. Whether the student has read or heard of the information used, the student must document the source of information. When utilizing written sources, a clear distinction should be made between quotations (which reproduce information from the source word-for-word within quotation marks) and paraphrases 5 (which are restatements of the source information produced in the student's own words). Both direct quotations and paraphrases must be documented. Even though a student rephrases, condenses or selects from another person's work the ideas are still the other person's and failure to give credit constitutes misrepresentation of the student's actual work and plagiarism of another person's idea. Purchasing a paper or copying another person's work and handing it in as the student's personal work is plagiarism and misrepresentation." (Source: Oakland University Graduate Catalog, 1987-89)  The University of South Florida, via the myUSF CANVAS system, has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service (Turnitin) which allows students and instructors to submit assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Exams will be check using the Turnitin automated plagiarism detection system. For more information regarding plagiarism (http://www.grad.usf.edu/plagiarism.php), go to http://www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0102/adadap.htm. Additional information from Turnitin on the use of their system is described in their manuals at: http://turnitin.com/en_us/training/student-training/submitting-a-paper. For information on avoiding plagiarism and citing properly visit http://www.lib.usf.edu/guides/avoiding-plagiarism/.  Note: Students must follow APA citation guidelines in writing reports and assignments. A summary of the APA citation guidelines is available at http://www.lesley.edu/library/guides/citation-/apa.html.  Other 1. Students do not collaborate on exams or assignments except when explicitly authorized by the instructor (e.g., team projects). 2. Students do not falsely obtain, distribute, or use academic research materials. 3. Students only submit exams, reports, programs or other assignments that is their own original work. When submitting a work with his/her own name on a paper, the student is certifying that it is her/his own work.  
 USF Institutional Policies   USF Graduate Academic Policies- http://www.grad.usf.edu/policies_sect7_full.php  Academic Integrity of Students: Academic integrity is the foundation of the University of South Florida System’s commitment to the academic honesty and personal integrity of its university community. Academic integrity is grounded in certain fundamental values, which include honesty, respect, and fairness. Broadly defined, academic honesty is the completion of all academic endeavors and claims of scholarly knowledge as representative of one’s own efforts. The final decision on an academic integrity violation and related academic sanction at any USF System institution shall affect and be applied to the academic status of the student throughout the USF System, unless otherwise determined by the independently accredited institution.  Disruption to Academic Process: Disruptive students in the academic setting hinder the educational process. Disruption of the academic process is defined as the act, words, or general conduct of a student in a classroom or other academic environment which in the reasonable estimation of the instructor: (a) directs attention away from the academic matters at hand, such as noisy distractions, persistent, disrespectful or abusive interruption of lecture, exam, academic 6 discussion, or general University operations, or (b) presents a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of self or other persons.  Student Academic Grievance Procedures: The purpose of these procedures is to provide all undergraduate and graduate students taking courses within the University of South Florida System an opportunity for objective review of facts and events pertinent to the cause of the academic grievance. An “academic grievance” is a claim that a specific academic decision or action that affects that student’s academic record or status has violated published policies and procedures or has been applied to the grievant in a manner different from that used for other students.  Disability Access: Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. SDS encourages students to notify instructors of accommodation needs at least 5 business days prior to needing the accommodation. A letter from SDS must accompany this request.  Sexual Misconduct/Sexual Harassment Reporting: USF is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence (USF System Policy 0-004). The USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention is a confidential resource where you can talk about incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you without having to report your situation to either the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report. Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and under the USF System Policy, educators must report incidents of sexual harassment and gender-based crimes including sexual assault, stalking, and domestic/relationship violence. If you disclose any of these situations in class, in papers, or to me personally, I am required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Contact the USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention: (813) 974-5757.  Religious Observances: All students have a right to expect that the University will reasonably accommodate their religious observances, practices and beliefs. If you observe religious holidays, you should plan your allowed absences to include those dates.  End of Semester Student Evaluations: All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.   Campus Emergencies: Explain the process for campus emergencies. Example: In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for USF to suspend normal operations. During this time, USF may opt to continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not limited to: Canvas, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, Skype, and email messaging and/or an alternate schedule. It’s the responsibility of the student to monitor the Canvas site for each class for course specific communication, and the main USF, college, and department websites, emails, and MoBull messages for important general information.   
 Student Expectations and Course Policies  7 Turnitin.com: In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized. Turn-It-In is an automated system which instructors may use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class.   Netiquette Guidelines:  1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face-to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agree with.   2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.    Email and Discussion Board Guidelines: 1. Use the subject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or discussion is about.  2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore, any issues should not be posted there.    
 Course Technology & Student Support   Academic Accommodations: Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SDS website at http://www.usf.edu/student-affairs/student-disabilities-services/ . Academic Support Services: The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university-wide efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate student success. For a comprehensive list of academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website at- http://www.usf.edu/student-success/  8  Canvas Technical Support:  If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813-974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.     9 Tentative Weekly Schedule Please check Canvas for updates  Module # Topics Module 1  Introduction Legal, political, and ethical considerations in international management Module 2 Making distinctions across cultures  Module 3 Perceptions and attitudes across cultures Module 4 Communicating effectively across cultures Motivating and leading across cultures Module 5 Managing conflicts and conducting negotiations  Managing and rewarding international work force Module 6 Developing international strategy Module 7 Final paper presentation due Module 8 Final project report due      