  
 University of South Florida Sarasota -Manatee  
CGS   2100 , 3 Credit Hours  
 Computers In Business  
Spring  2023 – Virtual  
 
Instructor :  Mara Casado  
Class Meeting time:  No Face -to-face 
meetings  Time/Classroom: Asynchronous recordings 
posted weekly in Canvas  
E-Mail : Please use  Canvas “ Messages ” for 
ALL course related communications  
  
PREREQUISITIES  
Consult your Advisor for the latest prerequisites  
 
COURSE DESCRIPTION    
From Course Catalog: “A study of the use and impact of computers in all areas of 
business organizations. Course includes hands -on experience and the use of software 
packages for business analysis .” 
 
Computers in Business (CGS 2100) fulfills your General Education Information and 
Data Literacy course requirement. In this course, you dev elop computer proficiency in 
the use of business productivity software using Microsoft Office 2019 / Office 365. 
This course prepares you to use Microsoft Office for coursework assigned in most 
USF courses and you will attain valuable entry level workforce  skills.  
The approach this course applies to the applications for Microsoft Office is that you 
learn by doing; the best way to get familiar with Microsoft Office is to use it. You are 
introduced to the Microsoft Office applications through modules in Canvas using 
MindTap. The training assignments are step -by-step tasks that take you through a 
project but give you a fresh start for the next task should you fail to complete the task. 
The assigned module projects cover the same skills, but you are graded  on the 
completed project. The simulation skills training for each module maps to the module 
learning objectives which are tied to your Student Learning Outcomes. You will be 
assessed on your completion percentage for each training module and module grader  
projects as assigned.  
Once you are oriented and comfortable with MindTap you complete the training for 
each assigned module which prepares  you for the MindTap Projects. In MindTap you 
earn points when you complete training and assigned projects. Feedback i s immediate 
and within the training you have help in the form of a short intro explaining the task, 
you can observe the task completion by viewing a recording or you can walk through 
the task with the aid of the simulation in practice  mode.  
 
COURSE STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES    
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to : 
 
• Discuss how information systems can be used to support business organizations.  
• Navigate and create content‐rich documents using a word processing 
application.  2  • Create simple to advanced spreadsheets and perform mathematical and financial 
calculations, build charts and format spreadsheets.  
• Critically interpret quantitative evidence such as graphs, tables, charts  
• Use a presentation tool to create presentations.  
• Create and edit database objects (Tables, Queries, Forms, Reports).  
• Integrate Word, Access, Excel, and PowerPoint  
 
Required Materials   
MindTap for The New Perspectives Collection, 
Microsoft® Office 365® & Office 2019 | 1st Edition |  
 
 
   
Students can start by 
using the 14 -day free 
trial. After the 14 days, 
students must purchase 
the Access Code .  
Day 1 of the trial begins 
January 9th and will 
expire in 14 days  
 
 
CANVAS USE  
The class syllabus is posted in Canvas, an online course management system. In this 
class  Canvas will be used for viewing class lectures and submitting assignments.  
Information on how to use Canvas is available at: http://usfsm.edu/elearning  
Canvas is accessible via the myUSF online web portal , or directly at 
http://learn.usf.edu . 
 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND GRADING  
The relative weights for each of these components in determining the final grade are 
as follows:  
  Points  % 
Concepts Video Trainings  100 2% 
Application Trainings  600 11%  
Projects  4,600  87%  
TOTAL  5,300  100%  
 
A grade will be determined based on the total of possible points earned, as follows: A 
90%-100%; B 80 %-89%; C 70 %-79%; D 60 %-69%; F 0 %-59%. More granularity with +s 
and –s will also be part of the final grade.  
 
 
ASSIGNMENTS  
• You must complete the project assignments using Office 365 or Office 2019 . 
The MindTap/SAM Projects will only accept Microsoft Office files. You can 
download Office 365 for the PC and Mac at no cost via myUSF. See instructions 
in Getting Started Module.  
• Microsoft Access is not included in Office 365 for the MAC and will not work 
under MAC OS. You will need a  Windows  system to work on the projects for the 
four assign ed Access modules . 
 3   
ATTENDAN CE POLICY  
This course is being offered totall y online. Instead of attending class synchronously, 
you need to participate in this course asynchronously. Students are expected each 
week to complete all assigned work.  
  
Any student may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the 
drop/add period. Please note:  March 2 5 is the last day for a student to drop from a 
course with “W”; no refund, no academic penalty  
 
INCOMPLETE GRADE  
An Incomplete grade is reserved for those with good reason for having missed a small 
amount of work and  are agreed to by the student and instructor during the course, as 
circumstances require. Otherwise, exams not taken,  or assignments not turned in will 
receive a zero for that grade, and the course grade assigned accordingly. Please note, it 
is the student’s responsibility to ensure the work is completed before the end of the 
following semester and the Incomplete changed  to a regular grade. If this is not done 
before the end of the following semester, the Incomplete automatically becomes an F!  
 
STATEMENT ON ACADEMIC HONESTY   
The instructor of this course trusts that all students behave in strict compliance with 
accepted s tandards of academic honesty. A conscious effort is made to ensure that 
grading standards are fair, and that anyone who makes an honest and consistent 
attempt to do well in the course will succeed, as, by this time in your degree program, 
it is expected th at you can do  the work. There will be no tolerance for anyone who 
attempts to "succeed" by dishonest routes.  
Academic honesty includes, but is not limited to:  
• Honesty in taking examinations.  
• Honesty in completing your assignments yourself. There is no obje ction to 
some degree of helpful collaboration in completion of assignments; often a 
rough spot can be overcome with a helpful word. But assignments passed in 
for grading must be substantially one person's - the submitter's - work. Please 
note that in many of the assignments for this course, it will be fairly obvious to 
the instructor when students have collaborated beyond a reasonable degree 
(having exactly the same wrong answer, for example, is usually a dead 
giveaway).  
• Honesty in attributing others' work.  In all submitted work, including papers 
and presentations, ideas, concepts,  and quotations obtained from other persons' 
works must be properly attributed. Not doing so constitutes theft of intellectual 
property.  
The consequences  for violating this trust will b e severe. Credit will not be given for 
any work that does not meet the above criteria. In an extreme violation or repeated 
violations, a failing grade in the course for reasons of academic dishonesty is an 
appropriate and reasonable penalty.  
 
  4  Tentative Class Schedule  
 
All assignments  are posted in Canvas   
 Topic s   
Week 1 (01/09)  Syllabus review , Course Introduction,  How to Register for 
MindTap in Canvas , Getting Started with MindTap , Technology 
for Success: Computer Concepts  
Week 2 (01/1 6) Word Module 1: Creating and Editing a Document  
Week 3 (01/23)   Word Module 2: Navigating and Formatting a Document  
Word Module 3: Creating Tables and a Multipage Report  
Week 4 (01/30)  Word Module 4: Enhancing Page Layout and Design  
Word Module 5: Working with Templates, Themes, and Styles  
Week 5 (02/06)  Word Module 6: Using Mail Merge . 
Word Module 7: Collaborating with Others and Integrating Data  
Week 6 (02/1 3) Excel Module 1: Getting Started with Excel  
Excel Module 2: Formatting Workbook Text and Data  
Week 7 (02/20) Excel Module 3: Performing Calculations with Formulas and 
Functions  
Excel Module 4: Analyzing and Charting Financial Data  
Week 8 (02/2 7)  Excel Module 5: Generating Reports from Multiple Worksheets 
and Wor kbooks  
Excel Module 6: Managing Data with Data Tools  
Week 9 (03/0 6)  Excel Module 7: Summarizing Data with PivotTables  
Excel Module 8: Performing What -If Analyses  
Week 10 (03/1 3) SPRING BREAK   3/13/22 - 3/19/22 
Week 11 (03/28 ) Excel Module 9: Exploring Financial Tools and Functions  
Excel Module 10: Analyzing Data with Business Intelligence 
Tools  
Week 12 (04/04) Access Module 1: Creating a Database  
Access Module 2: Building a Database and Defining Table 
Relationships  
Week 13 (04/11 ) Access Mod ule 3: Maintaining and Querying a Database  
Access Module 4: Creating Forms and Reports  
Week 14 (04/18 ) PowerPoint Module 1: Creating a Presentation  
PowerPoint Module 2: Adding Media and Special Effects  
PowerPoint Module 3: Applying Advanced Formatting to 
Objects  
Week 15 (04/25 )  PowerPoint Module 5: Integrating PowerPoint with Other 
Programs  
Office Integration Project  
Week 16 (05/0 1)  Course Ends - all projects are due  
** The instructor reserves the right to make modifications to the schedule and 
will notify the student via Canvas if any changes are made.  
 
 
 5   USFSM AND USF SYSTEM POLICIES   
 
A. Academic Dishonesty :  The University considers any form of plagiarism or 
cheating on exams, projects, or papers to be unacceptabl e behavior.  Please 
review the USF System Regulation USF3.027 Academic Integrity of Students  
and the USF System Regulation USF6.0021 Student Code of Conduct.  
 
B. Academic Disruption : The University does not tolerate behavior that disrupts 
the learning process.  P lease review USF System Regulation USF3.025 
Disruption of Academic Policy .  
 
C. Contingency Plans : In the event of an emergency, it may be necessary for 
USFSM to suspend normal operations.  During this time, USFSM may opt to 
continue delivery of instruction through methods that include but are not 
limited to: Canvas, online conferencing/collaboration to ols, email messaging, 
and/or an alternate schedule. It is the responsibility of the student to monitor 
Canvas for each of their classes for course specific communication, as well as 
the USFSM website, their student email account, and MoBull  messages for 
important general information. The USF hotline at 1 (800) 992 -4231 is 
updated with pre -recorded information during an emergency.  See the Campus 
Police Website  for further information.  
 
D. Disabilities Accommodation :  Students are responsible for registering with 
the Office of Students with Disabilities Services (SDS) in order to receive 
academic accommodat ions. Reasonable notice must be given to the SDS office 
(typically 5 working days) for accommodations to be arranged. It is the 
responsibility of the student to provide each instructor with a copy of the 
official Memo of Accommodation.  Contact Information :  Disability 
Coordinator, at 941 -359-4714 or disabilityservices@sar.usf.edu , 
http://usfsm.edu/disability -services/  
 
E. Fire Alarm Instructions :  At the beginning of each semester please note the 
emergency exit maps posted in each classroom.  These signs are marked with 
the primary evacuation route (red) and secondary evacuation route (ora nge) in 
case the building needs to be evacuated. See Emergency Evacuation 
Procedures . 
 
F. Religious Observances :  USFSM recognizes the right of students and facul ty 
to observe major religious holidays.  Students who anticipate the necessity of 
being absent from class for a major religious observance must provide notice 
of the date(s) to the instructor, in writing, by the second week of classes.  
Instructors canceli ng class for a religious observance should have this stated in 
the syllabus with an appropriate alternative assignment.  
 
G. Protection of Students Against Discrimination and Harassment:    
1. Sexual Misconduct/S exual Harassment Reporting: USFSM is 
committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, 
including sexual harassment and sexual violence ( USF System Policy 0 -004). 
2. Other  Types of Discrimination and Harassment: USFSM also is 6  committed to providing an environment free from discrimination and 
harassment based on race, color, marital status, sex, religion, national origin, 
disability, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity and 
expression, or veteran status  (USF System Policy 0-007). 
   
The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you 
can talk about incidents of discrimination and harassment, including sexual 
harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, and 
domestic/relationship violence. This confidential resource can help you 
without having to report y our situation to either the Office of Student Rights 
and Responsibilities (OSSR) or the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and 
Equal Opportunity (DIEO), unless you request that they make a report.   
   
Please be aware that in compliance with Title IX and unde r the USF System 
Policy, educators must report incidents of discrimination and harassment, 
including sexual harassment, gender -based crimes, sexual assault, stalking, 
and domestic/relationship violence. If a student discloses any of these 
situations in cla ss, in papers, or to a faculty member personally, he or she is 
required to report it to OSSR or DIEO for investigation. Students who are 
victims or who have knowledge of such discrimination or harassment are 
encouraged to report it to either OSSR or D I E O . The Deputy Coordinator 
for USFSM is Allison Dinsmore, Coordinator of Disability Services & 
Student Advocacy, 941 -359-4714 or adinsmore1@sar.usf.edu .   
   
Campus Resources:   
• Counseling Center and Wellness Center 941 -487-4254   
• Victim Advocate (24/7) 94 1-504-8599   
   
List of off -campus resources:   
▪ HOPE Family Services: 941-755-6805  
▪ Safe Place & Rape Crisis Center (SPARCC) – Sarasota:  941-365-1976 
▪ First Call for Help- Manatee or Sarasota  941-366-5025 or 
www.uw211manasota.net   
▪ Centerstone:  941-782-4800; 24-hr Hotline 941-708-6059   
   
H. Web Portal Information:   Every newly enrolled USF student receives an 
official USF e -mail account.  Students receive official USF correspondence 
and Canvas course information via that address. The web portal is accessed at 
http://my.usf.edu    
 
I.  Academic Support Services:    
The Information Commons  provides students with individual and group study 
spaces, computers, printers, and various media equipment for temporary use.  
The Information Commons is staffed by librarians, learning support faculty, 
tutors, and technology and e -learning specialists. S tudents challenged by the 
rigors of academic writing, mathematics, or other course content are urged to 
contact their professors early in the semester to chart out a plan for academic 
success, and/or regularly use the tutoring services provided by Learning  
Support Services, which are provided at no cost to students.  7  J. Career Success Center :  
Students can explore careers through activities such as job shadowing, 
mentoring, and internships.  Whether students will be pursuing graduate 
school or seeking employme nt, Career Services can help develop a plan to 
reach their next destination.  Students can prepare professional documents, 
practice for the interview and attend employer or graduate school information 
sessions.   Access these resources or schedule an appoi ntment with career 
advisors at www.usfsm.edu/career -services     