10/14/23, 9:50 PM CPT Internship FAQ: ORG04655 : MS-BAIS Current Students
https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1794296/pages/cpt-internship-faq?module_item_id=28098685 1/4CPT Internship F AQ
1. How can I find an internship?
USF is using Handshake to help students find internships and full-time positions.  
To register and search openings go to https://usf.joinhandshake.com/login
(https://usf.joinhandshake.com/login)  (https://usf.joinhandshake.com/login)
Sample search terms to use: Information systems, business analytics, data analytics, data
science, programming, tech support, etc. 
For help on using the system,  you can go to https://support.joinhandshake.com/hc/en-us
(https://support.joinhandshake.com/hc/en-us) .  
 
2. Can I do an internship in any semester (Summer , Fall, and Spring)?
Yes, as long as you meet the requirements of the internship (minimum two semesters of prior full-time
coursework, have a minimum GP A of 3.0, course prerequisites, etc.) and your internship is approved
by us. Furthermore, your internship may be full-time or part-time, and you can do it for a maximum of
364 days.
 
3. If I'm working for a company and am paid by the company , why do I need USF's
authorization to do a CPT internship and why am I paying USF for a 1-credit class for the
internship?
International students on F1 student visa are NOT  allowed to work of f-campus (or even on-campus
for more than 20 hours/week) as a condition of your F1 visa. The only way in which you can work for
an employer is if we (USF) authorize that this "work" is related to the learning process (practical
training) for which you are enrolled at USF . We must demonstrate to USCIS that your "work" is
relevant to our curriculum. Hence, internships are considered to be practicuum courses (ISM 6945),
and you will have to register and pay for this 1-credit internship course before you can join the
internship, and submit a report at the end of the semester to receive a grade for that course. Since
USF courses are structured on a semester basis, if your internship spans two semesters, you have to
register separately and pay tuition for each of the two semesters for which you are doing the
internship.
 
4. Can I change my CPT employer after accepting a prior of fer from a dif ferent employer?10/14/23, 9:50 PM CPT Internship FAQ: ORG04655 : MS-BAIS Current Students
https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1794296/pages/cpt-internship-faq?module_item_id=28098685 2/4No. iStart does not allow that. It also inconveniences the employer , brings disrepute to our university ,
and hurts our chances of securing internships for future students. If you do not like the terms or pay
of your first CPT  employer , do not accept their of fer and wait for the next employer . But you are not
allowed to play games like accept one of fer and ask for a change when you get a better of fer, or try to
negotiate a better paying of fer by using one CPT  employer against another . If such situations come to
light, we may penalize you by not approving any of your CPT  applications for that semester and/or by
revoking a previously approved CPT  application. A CPT  internship is NOT  a job that you can flip as
often as you want. It is a course and if you want an internship, then you must respect the rules and
meet the obligations of the course. A CPT  internship is a privilege provided to international students
by USCIS, and we will not allow any abuse of this privilege.
 
5. Can I do a CPT internship and also do an on-campus job in the same semester?
Current immigration interpretation by the Student Exchange V isitor Program (SEVP) does not
address concurrent CPT  and on-campus employment. But USF Of fice of International Services
recommends that students who engage in concurrent CPT  and on-campus employment limit the total
employment to 20 hours/week during Fall and Spring . In light of this recommendation, we will not
approve of concurrent CPT  and on-campus employment during Fall or Spring semesters for a total of
more than 20 hours/week. If a situation comes to light where a student is doing 20 hours or more of
internship and also doing an on-campus job anywhere on USF campus, we will pull the student's
internship for that semester and give that student an U grade for the internship course for violating
our internship policies.
 
6. Can I do a full-time (40-hour/week) internship and also register for classes at the same
time?
Yes, you can, but in such cases, we made a decision to limit course enrollment to a maximum of 2
additional 3-credit courses.  Note that you must register for at least 2 credits during Fall or Spring
semesters, even with a full-time internship, in order to maintain part-time student status.
 
7. How many credit hours of coursework do I have to register for if I'm doing internship in a
given semester?
This depends on the semester and the number of hours per week of internship. If it is a summer
semester , you do not have to register for any courses except the 1-credit internship course,
irrespective of whether the internship is full-time or part-time. In Fall or Spring semesters, if you are
doing a part-time internship, then you have to maintain full-time student status by registering for at
least 9 credit hours of graduate classes. If you are doing a full-time internship in a Fall or Spring
semester , the full-time internship is viewed as equivalent of full-time, on-campus enrollment, but you10/14/23, 9:50 PM CPT Internship FAQ: ORG04655 : MS-BAIS Current Students
https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1794296/pages/cpt-internship-faq?module_item_id=28098685 3/4still have to maintain part-time student status, which means at least 2 credits of enrollment that
semester (including the 1-credit internship course). Note that both full-time and part-time internships
are 1 credit per semester . 
 
8. I registered for classes full-time (9 credit hours or more) and later on during the semester , I
got an internship of fer. The employer gave me a joining date in the middle of the semester .
Can I join this internship?
If you have a full-time course load, you cannot do a full-time internship (more than 20 hours) during
that semester .  In such case, you will have to inform your employer that your internship will be a
maximum of 20 hours, and your of fer letter must state that.  The only exception is if you were
registered for 3 courses, and one of the three courses runs over the first half of the semester so that
you have completed it by the time the internship starts.  In that case, we will allow you to do a full-
time internship.
 
9. Why was my internship application declined by the MS-BAIS director?
We do not approve incomplete or hastily completed incorrect applications. If you do not follow proper
instructions, your application will be rejected. Some common reasons for rejection are:
Incomplete application (e.g., you did not include the date with your signature or omitted nature of
study).
Your "nature of study" was the first few words of an incomplete sentence that was copied from
someone else's internship application (e.g., "I am excited to apply the learnings of the above
courses...") and not what YOU would actually do in YOUR OWN internship.
You used the wrong section/CRN that did not align with your internship dates.
Your internship dates did not match with the dates on your of fer letter .
Your of fer letter was not included with your application.
Even if your current internship is a continuation of a previous internship, ALWAYS check the rules
before filing any internship application, because USCIS rules and procedures may have changed,
and DOUBLE CHECK your application for completeness and correctness.
 
10. My internship application was approved by the MS-BAIS director but my iStart application
was delayed or not approved. Why?
If you do not follow proper instructions, your application will be stalled even after approval. Common
reasons for delay or non-approval:10/14/23, 9:50 PM CPT Internship FAQ: ORG04655 : MS-BAIS Current Students
https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1794296/pages/cpt-internship-faq?module_item_id=28098685 4/4You did not include the right people in the CC: fields of your CPT  internship application (Docusign
form). This would mean that your internship application was approved but not properly archived
for further processing.
You had the wrong approver on your iStart application, which will route your application to the
wrong person.
Many other reasons that we can't possibly anticipate.
Not reading and following ALL internship procedures as stated on this MS BAIS Org Canvas site will
inevitably lead to internship rejection or delay . DOUBLE CHECK your application for completeness
and correctness before submitting. In addition, please start your internship 1-2 WEEKS before the
start of the semester to ensure that your application is processed on time. If your internship starts
tomorrow and if you send us your application today , you can't expect us to drop all our work and
process your application on an urgent basis so that you can start your internship tomorrow . 
 