 
         1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semester: Fall 2023 
Class Meeting Days: Monday  
Class Meeting Time: 5:00 – 8:30 PM 
Class Meeting Location: TBA 
Instructor:  Don Berndt  
Office Location:  CIS 2073  
Office Hours:  W 7-8 PM (Online)  
Office Phone:  (813) 974 -6769  
Email:  dberndt@usf.edu  
 
 
 
I. Welcome!  
Welcome to the data warehousing  class (ISM 62 08).  Data science is an exciting area and 
major theme of our graduate programs.  This is clearly a multi -disciplinary field, but 
effective data management is certainly a core skill.  This course focuses on data 
warehousing and visualization techniques, includ ing dimensional modeling and data 
cubes, analytic SQL for query writing, data visualization (with tools like Tableau) and data 
warehouse administration.  
 
This course includes significant hands -on experience, so you will apply what you learn.  
The discussio ns and assignments will also reinforce important competencies such as 
creative thinking, teamwork and digital skills (see the nationally -standardized career 
readiness competencies at http://www.naceweb.org/career -
readiness/competencies/career -readiness -defined/  for details).  
 
II. University Course Description  
This course is designed for the MS graduate student and interested MBA students.   The 
course covers the rapidly emerging data warehousing and data mining technologies that 
are likely to play a strategic role in business organizations.  
 
 ISM 62 08:  
Data Warehousing  
CRN: 58155 , Section: 0 20, Credit Hours : 3 
CRN: 53321 , Section: 021 , Credit Hours : 3 
Muma College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
Last Updated: 8/16/2023  
 
 
2 You can find the official description at  http://ugs.usf.edu/course -inventory/ . 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
The Advanced Database Management (ISM 6218) course or similar two-semester 
database c ourse sequence  (and/ or sig nificant professional experience).  
 
IV. Course Purpose   
This course is designed for the MS graduate student and interested MBA students. The 
course covers the rapidly emerging data warehousing and data mining technologies that 
are likely to play a strategic role in business organizations. Topics include the differences 
between operational and analytical database systems, dimensional modeling (data cubes) 
and star schemas, data warehouse performance issues, data quality, the data warehouse 
developmen t life cycle, data warehouse navigation, and a brief overview of selected data 
mining techniques. The Oracle database system will be used to illustrate many of the 
concepts covered in class, as well as providing a platform for hands -on projects. As a 
prere quisite, students should have had at least two courses covering relational database 
systems (usually including ISM 6218: Advanced Database Systems), or significant work 
experience.  
 
The class focuses on a combination of theory and practical database use, w hich will be 
illustrated primarily through the Oracle DBMS software.   The Oracle database engine is 
freely available for educational use from Oracle Corporation.   Therefore, students will 
have access to many of the sophisticated tools at home and on mobile  platforms.   In 
addition, access to local database servers will be provided, so all hands -on projects can be 
pursued in an industrial quality environment.   Though the primary database engine will be 
the Oracle DBMS, several cloud -based data warehouse platf orms will be covered  to 
highlight common features, as well as alternative approaches.  
 
V. How to Succeed in this Course  
First, please visit Canvas often and monitor all course announcements.  Canvas will be the 
primary means of communicating, as well as organ izing and presenting the course 
content.  For each week, review the most important material identified in “Start Here” 
pages.  Our in -class time is designed to further and deepen the knowledge, concepts, and 
skills from the readings – not just repeat the i nformation.  We will also use hands -on 
laboratory activities to reinforce and apply skills.  USF also suggests many study tips, so 
have a look at the resources below.  
 
Study skills of successful students:  This one -page handout details  what the study skills 
behaviors of top students look like: http://bit.ly/successfulstudentbehaviors .  This 18 -page 
PDF provides 101 individual tips for effective st udy skills and note -taking: 
http://bit.ly/studyskillstips   
  
 
3 Best practices for hybrid courses : Successful students should follow these tips to succeed 
in classes where they switch between remote and in -person attendance: 
https://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/student -best -practices -hybrid.pdf   
 
Canvas:  See the Community Guides at https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Student/gh -
p/student . 
 
Micrsoft Teams:  See best the practices video for Teams at https://youtu.be/q6zqaSMtnjg .  
For some written guides, see the student introduction 
(https://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/student -guide -microsoft -teams.pdf ) and eti quette 
(http://www.usf.edu/atle/documents/teams -etiquette.pdf ) documents.  
 
VI. Course Topics  
The course topics are divided into seven major parts, including hands -on coverage of data 
warehouse design and implementation techniques.  
 
Part N (0)  – Introducing the Data Warehous e: The first  meetings provide an overview of 
data warehousing and data mining technologies. The differences between operational 
and analytic databases are highlighted, along with matters of scale (data marts and data 
warehouses). Important presentation technologies, i ncluding online analytic processing 
(OLAP) tools, geographic information systems and data mining techniques are briefly 
introduced.  
 
Part I – Designing the Data Warehouse: Key data warehouse design techniques involving 
dimensional modeling and star schemas , as well as the role of metadata, are studied in 
detail. This provides the foundation necessary to pursue the in -class and semester 
projects. A series of case studies are used to illustrate issues throughout the semester.  
 
Part II – Querying  the Data Ware house: The focus of this section is interface design, 
emphasizing the ability to effectively navigate, pursue ad -hoc queries, and support 
decision -making tasks in a data warehouse environment.  
 
Part II I – Visualizing  the Data Warehouse: The focus of this section is data visualization , 
from reporting to storytelling.   Tools like Tableau and PowerBI used for hands -on 
activities.  
 
Part I V – Mining  the Data Warehouse: The focus of this section is using  data cube s as 
input to data mining and machine learning.  While these topics are covered in other 
classes, some examples here showcase the whole lifecycle in data warehousing.   
 
Part V – Administering  the Data Warehouse: Data warehouse administration issues such 
as capacity planning, indexing strategies, partitioning and aggregation, the role of 
parallelism, and performance tuning issues will be covered. In addition, storage 
subsystems and related data  warehousing infrastructure requirements will be reviewed.  
  
 
4 Part V I – Managing the Data: Most of the  effort on a project involves the data extraction, 
transformation, and loading activities required to populate the data warehouse. These 
techniques, along with data quality issues are highlighted in this section.  
 
Part VI I – Managing the Data Warehouse: Managerial issues involving business strategy 
and project justification are considered based on outside readings and case studies. In 
addition, the data warehouse development lifecycle and project team requirements are 
discussed.  
 
Part VII I – Extending  the D ata Warehouse: Special topics on knowledge discovery in 
databases, data and text mining techniques, geographic information systems, and other 
approaches that leverage data warehouses are covered as time permits.  
 
 
VII. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of th is course, students will be able to:  
1. Describe a variety of  data warehousing technologies.  
2. Contrast analytic databases with online transaction processing databases.  
3. Write queries using analytic SQL extensions . 
4. Design data cubes using dimensional modeling.  
5. Implement data warehouses  using SQL data definition statements and integrity 
constraints.  
6. Apply various techniques such as index structures and optimization modes to 
improve data warehouse query performance.  
7. Contrast alternative cloud -based data warehousing technologies with the 
relational model . 
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
Required Text:  Kimball and Ross, The Data Warehouse Toolkit , Third Edition, John Wiley & 
Sons, 2013.  This book provides excellent coverage of dimensional modeling and a 
collection of case study chapters that review design patterns.  
 
Outside readings will be used to supplement the text books . 
 
You should also have access to a fa irly current database textbook for review purposes (if 
necessary).  There are also plenty of Oracle DBMS online references (such as Oracle: The 
Complete Reference ), documents and tutorials.  We will use the Oracle DBMS to 
implement different techniques for the semester project., though you are free to use 
other database syst ems as well.  
 
IX. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Oracle maintains an extensive library of online documentation that students will find 
useful during the course (see https:/ /docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle -
database/ ).  
 
5  
   
 
6  
 
X. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)   
94-100 A  
90 – 93 A-  
87 – 89 B+  
84 – 86 B  
80 – 83 B-  
77 – 79 C+  
74 – 76 C  
70 – 73  C-  
67 – 69 D+  
64 – 66 D  
60 – 63 D-  
0 – 59 F  
 
 
XI. Grade Categories and Weights  
The course relies on three major types of assessments: 1) four group assignments 1) online 
quizzes (as self -paced checks on core modules), 2) group assignments that apply skills and 
3) a final project that requires some creative thinking and the synthesis of skills.  These 
activities are weighted as show below.  
 
Assessment  Percent of Final Grade  
Online Quizzes (8)  40% 
Assignments (4) – Adjusted based on course duration.  40% 
Final Project  15% 
Participation and Attendance  5% 
 
XII. Course Assessments  
There are several  categories of assignments or activities used for assessment , including 
the following items.  
1. Online  quizzes  (8) are part of some core modules ( following  the introductory 
module), accounting for 40%  of the grade.  
2. Assignments (4) are given in selected modules, with roughly two weeks to 
complete (for a total of 40%  of the grade).   The assignments exercise skills in 1) 
dimensional modeling, 2) analytic SQL query writing, 3) data visualization and 4) 
data warehouse performance tuning .  These assignments are intended to be group  
activities.   Note: For shorter versions of the course (6 -8 weeks), one assignment 
may be dropped.   
 
7 3. The final project  (15%) The final project (also a group effort) focuses on 
synthesizing all the skills on a project of interest to the students.  Typically, this 
involves identifying some interesting data sets, loading the data (using ETL 
techniques), designing data cubes, writ ing analytic queries and/or data 
visualization.  
4. Class participation  (5%)  will be based on contributions in class, discussion boards 
and/or other collaborative meetings .  This will along with peer assessments from 
group members will be used to reward highly  engaged participants.  
 
Group assignments and the final project are to be completed by a small group 
(approximately 3 -5 people) and involve the design and implementation of database 
experiments, as well as query writing, design, and even database administr ation activities. 
The application areas may extend one of the example databases design used in class or 
based on a work -related project (with prior approval).  
 
XIII. Grade Dissemination  
The Canvas system will be used throughout the course.  Students can access s cores and 
other information at any time using “Grades” in Canvas.  
 
XIV. Course Schedule  
This is a tentative course schedule for a 12 -week format.  Of course, adjustments would 
be made based on course duration such an 8 -week format.  
 
Week  Modules  Assignments  
1/12 Part N: Introducing the Data Warehouse   NA  
2/12 Part I : Designing the Data Warehouse   Quiz 1: Dimensional Modeling  
Assignment 1: Dimensional Modeling    
3/12 Case Study : Retail Sales  
Case Study : Inventory  Quiz 2: Retail Sales CS  
Quiz 3: Inventory CS  
4/12 Part II: Analytic SQL   Quiz 3: DBMS Architecture  
Assignment 2: Query Writing  
5/12 Case Study: Procurement  
Case Study: Order Management  Quiz 4: Procurement CS  
Quiz 5: Order Management CS  
6/12 Part III: Visualizing the Data Warehouse  Quiz 6: Visualization  
Assignment 3: Visualization  
7/12  Case Study: Superstore Data Visualization  NA 
8/12  Part IV: Mining the Data Warehouse  Quiz 7 : Mining the DW  
9/12  Special Topic: Decision Tree Induction  NA 
10/12  Part V: Administering the Data Warehouse  Quiz 8: Administering the DW  
11/12  Part VI: Managing the DW (Data Quality)  Final Project  
12/12  Part VII: Extending the DW (Special Topics)  NA 
  
 
8 * Note: The Schedule is subject to revision . 
 
XV. Standard University Policies  
 
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF.   These may be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XVI. Covid -19 Procedu res 
 
All students must comply with university policies and posted signs regarding COVID -19 
mitigation measures, including wearing face coverings and maintaining social distancing  
during in -person classes .  Failure to do so may result in dismissal from clas s, referral to the 
Office  of Student Conduct and Ethical Development , and possible removal from campus.  
 
Additional details are available on the University ’s Core Syllabus Policy Statements page : 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx  
 
XVII. Course Policies  
 
Late Work Policy : Graduate students may be b alancing work demands with their studies.  
Extensions may be possible on a per -assignment basis in advance of a due date.  
Unexcused late assignments will be assessed a penalty: a half -letter grade if it is 1-2 days 
late, or a full -letter grade for 3-7 day s late.   Assignments will not be accepted if overdue 
by more than seven days.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Grades of incomplete are to be avoided if at all possible 
(especially at the graduate level).  Any students that are at risk of not completing the 
course  should reach out to the instructor as soon as possible.  The preferred approach is 
to turn in most of the assignments even in draft form and receive a final grade, which can 
be adjusted later once the final versions of any missing assignments are submitte d.  The 
formal university policies governing an “I” grade are as follows.  
 
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise 
earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor 
of the course. For undergraduate students, this time li mit may not exceed two academic 
semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever 
comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic 
semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limi t will be changed to “IF” or 
“IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the 
instructor’s discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements  
 
9 due to illness or other ci rcumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and 
student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to 
be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero 
for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses 
and one semester  for graduate courses  from the original date grades were due for that 
course.  An "I" grade not cleared within the  two semesters for under graduate courses and 
one semester for graduate courses (including summer semester) will revert to the grade 
noted on the contract.  
 
Group Work Policy : Everyone must take part in a group project.   All members of a group 
will receive the same score; that is, the project is assessed,  and everyone receives this 
score.   In addition, However, every person in the group will provide the instructor with a 
peer assessment at the end of the semester.  The ins tructor will adjust the total 
assignment grade based on peer suggestions (by up to 10%).  
 
Email : The Canvas Inbox is the preferred method of communication, but you may use 
official USF email as a second method (see the email address above).  The goal is to  
respond within 1 -2 days to any request.  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas.   
The Canvas Inbox feature is the preferred method of communication.  If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being 
offered in Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides . You 
may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
XVIII.   Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Attendance Policy:  Students are expected to attend classes.   Faculty must inform 
students of attendance requirements on syllabi.   Instructors should accommodate 
excused absences by making arrangements with students ahead of time (when possible) 
or by providing a reasonable amount of time to make up missed work.  
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students 
may not use websites that enable cheating, s uch as by uploading or downloading material 
for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – any use 
of th ese website s (including uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the 
academic integrity policy .  
 
Professionalism Policy:  Per university policy and classroom etiquette; mobile phones, 
iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all classroom and lab lectures.   Those not heeding this 
rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately so as to n ot disrupt the learning 
environment.   Please arrive on time for all class meetings.   Students who habitually  
 
10 disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a 
reduction in their final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Studen t Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for 
students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course.   These surveys will 
be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email 
when the r esponse window opens.   Your participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 
Food and Drink Policy:  Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than 
bottled/capped water), food, tobacco products, or like items in the classroom.   Your 
understanding of the necessity for this policy and cooperation will be greatly appreciated. 
This policy will be strictly enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this course,  turnitin.com  may  be utilized .  Turnitin  is an automated 
system which instructors may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's 
assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers 
that grows with each submission.   After the assignment is processed, as instructor I 
receive a report from turnitin.com t hat states if and how another author’s work was used 
in the assignment.   For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com . 
 
XIX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
 
Tampa Campus  
 
Tutoring Hub  
Example: The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects  to USF 
undergraduates. App ointments are recommended, but not required. For more 
information , email asctampa@usf.edu   
 
Writing Studio  
Example: The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and gr aduate 
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with 
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments 
are recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an 
appo intment, email writingstudio@usf.edu   
 
Counseling Center  
Example: The Counseling Center promote s the wellbeing of the campus community by 
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that 
enhances student academic and personal success . Contact information is available 
online .  
 
Center for V ictim Advocacy   
 
11 Example:  The Center for Victim Advocacy empower s survivors of crime, violence, or 
abuse by promoting the restoration of decision making,  by advocating for their rights, 
and by offering support and resources.  Contact information is available online .  
 
 
 
St. Petersburg Campus  
 
 
Student Success Center  
Example: The Student Success Center provides free tutoring and writing consultations . 
Contact information is available online .  
 
Wellness Center  
Example: The Wellness Center provides counseling and medical services, as well as 
prevention programs and victim advocacy . Contact information is available online .  
 
 
 
Sarasota -Manatee Campus  
 
Tutoring and Writing Support  
Example: Learning Support Services provides free tutoring and writing consultations 
for a variety of courses and subjects such as, Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance, 
Math & Statistics, Physics, and Spanish . Make an appointment online .  
 
Counseling and Wellness Center  
Example: The Counseling and Wellness Center is a confidential resource where you 
can talk about incidents of  discrimination and harassment, including sexual 
harassment, gender -based crim es, sexual assault, stalking, and  domestic/relationship 
violence. Call 941 -487-4254  
 
Victim Advocate  
Example: A Victim Advocate is available 24/7 by calling (941) 504 -8599. For assistance 
leave a message with your phone number and your call will be returne d as soon as 
possible. The Victim Advocate is available to assist victims of crime, sexual assault, and 
partner violence.  
 
 
 
XX. Important Dates to Remember  
All the dates  and assignments are tentative  and can be changed at the discretion of the 
professor.   To confirm these dates, please see the official USF calendar maintained by the 
Registrar  (see https://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/ ). 
 