Last Revised: 7/27/2023        1  
 
 
 
MAN 6930 .350  & MAN 6930. 020 
Healthcare Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
Semester: Fall 202 3 
Class Meeting Days: Asynchronous  throughout the Fall 2 Semester  
Class Meeting Time: N/A 
Class Meeting Location: Online /Canvas  
Instructor:  Dr. Sandy Weiss  DBA, MBA -HCM, RN, CPHQ, CPPS, CSM, PMP  
Email: * ssweiss@usf.edu   
LinkedIn : linkedin.com/in/DrSandyWeiss      
Office Location:  MS Teams Meeting  
Office Hours:  As needed, by appointment only    
*Please see the section of the syllabus that outlines expectations for email etiquette.  
 
 
I. University Course Description 
This course explores management principles and how they are applied within various health care 
settings. Contemporary theories, critical perspectives, models, and best practices designed to foster performance excellence in the highly competitive health care industry are  examined. 
Students will address the complexities and challenges of health systems and the role that managers play in achieving the goals of the organization.   
 
II. Course Prerequisites  
None.  
 III. Course Purpose /Objectives   
Upon completion of this course, students should have the ability to:    
• Demonstrate effective communication skills  
• Identify the components of the healthcare delivery system and external environmental factors 
affecting the management of healthcare organizations  
• Analyze laws, regulati ons, court decisions, and health policy that impact healthcare 
organizations and health services delivery  
• Demonstrate ethical choices, values, and professional behavior in healthcare management 
roles/decision -making  
• Analyze the responsibility and opera tions of a healthcare organization to identify and resolve 
problems and improve performance  
• Use statistical reasoning in interpreting quantitative and qualitative research and organizational 
data  
• Demonstrate critical thinking and effective decision making through financial management, 
strategic planning, economic analysis, and quality assessment and improvement  
 
 
2 • Demonstrate an understanding of the roles, perspectives, and expectations of clinical 
practitioners, how they differ from nonclinical staff, and the challenges these differences present 
for management  
 
IV. Course Format  
This is an asynchronous online course with multiple weekly assignments to keep you engaged and connected to your peers. You are expected to complete all assignments timely and  are 
encouraged to post initial discussion responses early to give your peers additional time to create thoughtful  and robust responses to your initial post.  This will encourage  a collaborative learning 
environment. There are no lectures in this course, your professor will be highly engaged in the 
discussion posts. It is recommended  that you focus your energy on reading and providing 
discussion posts and responses  that help bring additional context to the discussion.  Tap into your 
own professional experienc e to provide life to the discussion. There are also no test prep guides, 
as the exams are all open book. Remember, discussion posts/responses are worth > 50% of your 
grade.  
 Rather tha n solely relying on the text, you are expected to tap into your personal /professional  
experience and discuss how these principle s and readings can be applied to the real world. Your 
instructor works in industry and will frequently  jump in to the discussion to provide additional 
information or ask questions. If you want limited engagement and an “easy A,” this is not the course for you. While there are no live lectures or class meetings , the discussion posts are  
intended  to bring a level of engagement to the class that is not typically found in an online 
asynchronous learning environment.  
 
V. Student Learning Outcomes /Objectives  
 
Business Program Learning Goals (Skill(s) and Perspectives)  
Addressed in This Course:  
 
1. 
Interpersonal  
and 
Communication 
Skills  2. 
Analytical  
and Critical 
Thinking Skills  3. 
Information 
Technology 
Skills  4. 
Reflective Thinking 
and Experiential 
Learning  5. 
Ethical and 
Social 
Consciousness  6. 
Multicultural 
Competence  
 
5 5 2 5 3 2 
Numbers indicate levels 0 -5. 
 Interpersonal and Communication Skills – All weeks, all chapters  
Analytical & Critical Thinking Skills – All weeks, all chapters  
Reflective Thinking & Experiential Learning – All weeks, all chapters  
Ethical & Social Consciousness – All weeks, all chapter s 
Multicultural Competence – All weeks, all chapters  
 
 
 VI. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
Darr, K. & Nowicki, M. (2021).  Managing health services organizations and systems. Seventh Edition. 
Baltimore: HPP, Health Professions Press. ISBN 9781938870903    
 
3  
An electronic version of this textbook is allowed. All exams are open book. While we use Honorlock/Proctorio to take exams, the settings are edited to allow you access to your browser based textbook for the exam. Your screen will be monitored during the exam and Dr. Weiss does occasionally 
review the videos to ensure no one is “googling” the question s.  
 I cannot guarantee success with an older edition of the textbook. Please obtain the 7
th ed.  
 VII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Supportive  learning material is provided in the table that reviews the weekly assignments. If you 
find links not working or have  questions about any of the resources, please reach out to your 
professor.  
 
VIII. How to Succeed in this Course  
Submit all assignments timely an d stay engaged in the discussion posts. If you are struggling, 
communicate early and often with your professor. If you feel that you will struggle with deadlines and due dates or choose to not abide by the terms of this syllabus, please drop this course.  
 
IX. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued pandemic or hurricane season .  
 
X. Communication  
There is a FAQ section /discussion in Canvas for you to post questions about the course that you 
have. Peers/classmates are encouraged to answer questions, if  the answer is known. Please 
carefully review the syllabus before posting  a question . If a question  is personal in nature, or 
someth ing you are not comfortable posting  in FAQ, please email your instructor. 
 Please see professionalism section regarding email etiquette.  While responses are generally  within 
one business day , please allow  up to three business days for a response. If by cha nce I do not 
respond, please do not take it personally, it is not intentional! If that occurs, please email me again ! Also, make sure you have my email address correct ssweiss@usf.edu
.  
 
XI. Grading Scale  
 
Course Grade  Course Requirements  
A 93% or 930 points (up to 1000 points)  
A- 90% or 900 points (up to 929 points)  
B+ 87% or 870 points (up to 899 points)  
B 83% or 830 points (up to 869 points)  
B- 80% or 800 points (up to 829 points)  
C+ 77% or 770 points (up to 799 points)  
C 73% or 730 points (up to 769 points)  
C- 70% or 700 points (up to 729 points)  
D 60% or 600 points (up to 699 points)  
F <60% or less than 600 points  
  
 
4 XII. Grade Categories and Weights  
Grading:  
Assignment (n)  Points Per 
Assignment  Total Points  Overall Percentage (%) 
Introduction Video (1)  100 100 10%  
Discussion Post (6)  5 at 95, 1 at 85  560 56%  
Quiz (9)  10 90 9% 
Writing Assignment (1)  150 150 15%  
Exam (1)  100 100 10%  
There may  be the opportunity for  additional  extra credit in this course. Your professor will let you 
know when or if that opportunity arises. Do not ask your professor for extra credit , that is not 
appropriate.  
 
Weekly breakdown: 
Week  Chapter 
(s) Intro 
Video  Discussion 
Post  Quiz Writing 
Assignment  Final 
Exam  Weekly 
Points  
1 1 100   10     110 
2 2 & 3    95 20     115 
3 6 & 9    95 20     115 
4 4 & 8        150   150 
5 10 & 11    95 20     115 
6 12   95 10     105 
7 13   95 10     105 
8 14   85     100 185 
Totals   = 100 560 90 150 100 1000  
 
Assignment Overview***  
Late work is accepted in some  cases with heavy penalty. It is in your best interest to turn assignments in 
timely. If you need to discuss a deadline, reach out to Dr. Weiss well in advance of the deadline.   
 Introduction (1):  
Since this as an online course, our interaction is somewhat limited compared to a face -to-face classroom 
setting. We will kick the semester off by posting video introductions. Please introduce yourself; feel free to share any personal details you would like with  the class (not mandatory), what your major is, what you 
hope to accomplish or learn by the end of the semester, any fears or concerns you have going into the semester, and what you are most excited to learn about! Please also include any academic or career goals that you would like to share with the class. In addition to the video, you must provide a typed summary within the body of the discussion (or ensure that your video utilizes closed captioning ). This assignment 
is graded based on completion. While responses to other students are not required, they are strongly encouraged! Late submissions for this assignment will result in a zero, emailing the assignment to Dr. Weiss does not count as a submissio n. It is your responsibility to upload your assignment timely.  If you 
have problems uploading your video, please reach out to IT.  
   
 
5 Here are instructions on how to post a video within the discussion (you may also use your own YouTube 
account if you choose  to): 
https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor -Guide/How -do-I-record -media -using- the-Rich -Content-
Editor -as-an/ta -p/86 4  
  Discussion Posts (6):  
Discussion Posts (Initial Discussion Post and Post Responses):  Successful completion of this course requires that you actively participate in discussion posts (assigned in the module and post prompts are detailed in the table at the end of this document). Since we do not “meet” as a class, these discussion posts are designed to make the course engaging and highly interactive!   
You are expected to submit your initial post prior to midnight (eastern time zone) on Wednesday within the week of the specific module for which it is due, and you must respond to two classmates ’ posts prior 
to midnight on Sunday of that same week (11:59pm ET) unless otherwise noted in Canvas via 
announcement or post. You must submit your post text within the discussion board, not as a Word doc, 
attachment, or email to the instructor.    
 Posts must utilize references and be substantial, significant, and completely address all elements of the prompt. A few sentence initial post or post response is not acceptable, and your grade will reflect this. Aim to provide a minimum of two reference for initial posts and responses. You are expected to cite the textbook and any other supplemental material used as a resource in your post.  
 Please use APA formatting for citing sources in your posts: 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/in_text
_citations_the_basics.html  
 The earlier you post, the more time everyone has to create thoughtful, rich, and detailed post responses. It also allows your instructor additional time to read and assist with the development of a more robust understanding of the topic. You may post up to  two weeks in advance; the modules will be open, and the 
discussion will be available to you ahead of time. Late initial posts  will be accepted until Sunday at 
11:59pm of the week they are due, but there is a penalty (see rubric for details)! Late post res ponses  
will NOT be accepted. You should anticipate seeing a grade approximately one week  after the due date, 
though that is subject to change depending upon the instructor’s schedule. If the posting of grades is significantly delayed, you will be notified via an announcement in Canvas.   
CAREFULLY REVIEW THE RUBRIC (attached in the module).  If you are struggling with deadlines, please reach out to your instructor BEFORE reaching an assignment deadline.  
 Writing Assignment (1):  
There is one (1) writing assignment throughout this course. Your assignment will automatically go through plagiarism review software, TurninIn. The assignment is due by Sunday at 11:59pm ET within the module that it is assigned. If you plagiarize, you receive an automatic zero without the ability to make up the assignment. No late submissions will be accepted or considered for grading.  If you anticipate a 
scheduling issue, please work ahead and submit early.   
 
Writing  resources that you are encouraged to utilize:  
USF Online Writing Tutoring   
 
6 This resource receives your work and then takes 1 -2 days to turnaround back to you.   You will not be 
able to dialogue with the tutor who will spend an hour max on reviewing your work. Click the link below 
to see the instructions, submission format requirements, and more details about this resource.  
https://www. stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -life/student -success- center/writing/writing -
tutoring.aspx  (Links to an external site.)  
If you have questions after receiving your work back, it is advised to schedule a live Academic Writing 
Session (link below).  There are limited appointments, and for the month of November only the first 
three Wednesday s are currently available. If you think you will need assistance based on the feedback 
you received last week, we recommend you preschedule an appointment in anticipation of that.   
Schedule a live Academic Writing Session with a USF St. Pete Online Tutor:  
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/USFSPOnlineTutoringSummer2020@usfedu.onmicrosoft.c
om/bookings/s/m87g96dNwECST__T -UrwhQ2  (Links to an external site.)   
Please schedule meetings in anticipation of needing assistance since there is limited assistance 
available.   
Grammarly for grammar and spelling checks:  
https://www.grammarly.com/  (Links to an external site.)   
This is an automated resource you can submit your work to and receive instant feedback.   
Citation Assistance  
https://lib.stpetersburg.usf.edu/Citations  (Links to an external site.)  
 
Exams (1) & Quiz (6):  
You are encouraged to not wait until the last day or final hours to take the exam  or quizzes; they will be 
available for you to take approximately one week prior to the due date. It is the responsibility of the student to complete all assigned readings and be prepared! You must use Honorlock for these exams! 
These assessments will cover material from the chapters noted in the schedule. You will NOT receive a 
study guide for exams or quizzes, but they are OPEN BOOK  (electronic or paperback/physical copy OK) . 
While they are open book (book, notes, and PowerPoints), they are timed, so please complete readings 
before attempting to take the exam (time details noted in the module). The questions may be a mix of multiple choice and true/false.  
 The Quizzes:  
If you experience technical difficulties, do not contact your ins tructor. You must reach out to Honorlock 
or USF IT (depending upon the issue). Note, this is another great reason to take the exam as early as possible. If you wait until the last minute to take the exam, then experience technical difficulties, you run 
the risk of failing the exam. There are NO study guides for these quizzes, they are not meant to be overly 
difficult. The Quizzes will prepare for you for final exam, which is also open book (very similar to the 
quizzes).  
  
 
XIII. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
Grades will be posted to Canvas as quickly as possible. Allow at least one week , up to two weeks,  
from the assignment due date . If grading will be significantly delayed, you will see an 
announcement in Canv as.  
 
XIV. Course Schedule. 
Please see table at the end of this document  titled: Tentative Schedule of Assignments  
  
 
7 XV. Integration of This Course into Your Academic Experience  
You should be aware that some of the work you complete this semester will be used for purposes 
other than calculating your final course grade.  More specifically, different types of assessments are required for us to maintain our accreditation as a university and/or as a college of business.  
Most of these assessments are done as part of the course and will require no additional work from 
you as a student. If you have any questions or concerns about this please let me know.  
 XVI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses at USF . Be sure to 
review these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx
   
 XVII. Course Policies: Grades  
 
Late Work Policy :  
There are no make- ups for writing, quizzes, or exams  (any assignment in this course) . Late  
initial posts are only accepted as outlined in the rubric, with substantial penalty. No late quizzes, exams, writing assignments, or discussion post responses are accepted in this course. Please work ahead and do  not wait until the last minute to submit a n assignment.  
 Extra Credit Policy : There may be the opportunity for extra credit in this course. Your professor 
will let you know when or if that opportunity arises. Do not ask your professor for extra credit, that is not appropriate.   
 If >90% of the cl ass completes  the end of semester evaluations  sent out by the University, every 
student will receive 5 points extra credit (5 assignment points).  
 Grades of "Incomplete" : (standard USF policy verbiage)  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small 
portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time li mit may not exceed two academic semesters, whether 
or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation, whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” grades not removed by the end of the time limi t will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
 Fo
r graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other ci rcumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete 
and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. 
The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as long as it does not 
exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses and  one semester  for graduate courses  from 
the original date grades were due for that course.  An "I" grade not cleared within the  two 
semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (including 
summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.   
 
8  
Attendance Policy: Your professor does not take attendance, but the expectation is that you 
submit your weekly assignments timely  and are an engaged member of the class . This is an online 
course that has weekly discussion posts, responses,  and quizzes . Students are expected to 
participate and complete a ssignments timely, as outlined within this document . 
 Campus Free Expression: (standard USF policy verbiage)  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the ide a(s) 
presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.   Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas are worthy of  your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked 
to engage with complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 Make -up Exams Policy : There are no makeup  exams or quizzes. Please review the syllabus and 
schedule accordingly.  If you foresee issues, please contact your instructor.  
 
Rewrite Policy : There are no rewrites  allowed in this course.  
 
Group Work Policy : There are no group projects in this course, but all students are expected to 
collaborate through interaction in discussion posts.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s 
final examination policy . 
 XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media  
 
Canvas :  
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu
. 
 
Online Exam Proctoring : (standard USF policy verbiage)  
All students  must  review  the syllabus  and the requirements,  including the online  terms  and 
video  testing  requirements,  to determine  if they  wish  to remain  in the course.  Enrollment  in 
the course  is an agreement  to abide  by and accept  all terms.  Any student  may  elect  to drop 
or withdraw  from  this course  before  the end of the drop/add period.   
Online  exams  and quizzes  within  this course  may  require  online  procto ring.  Therefore,  students  
will be required to have  a webcam  (USB  or internal)  with  a microphone  when  taking  an exam  
or quiz. Students  understand that  this remote  recording device  is purchased and controlled   
 
9 by the student  and that  recordings  from  any priva te residence  must  be done  with  the 
permission  of any person  residing in the residence.   
To avoid any concerns  in this regard,  students  should select  private  spaces  for the testing.  
Students  with  concerns  may  discuss  location of an appropriate  space  for the recordings  with  
their  instructor  or advisor.   
Students  must  ensure  that any recordings  do not invade  any third- party  privacy  rights  and 
accept  all responsibility  and liability for violations  of any third- party  privacy  concerns.  
Students  are strictly resp onsible  for ensuring that  they  take  all exams  using a reliable  
computer  and high- speed  internet  connection.  Setup  information  will be provided  prior  to 
taking the proctored  exam.  To use Honorlock,  students  are required to download and install  
the Honorlock  Google  Chrome  extension . For additional  information  please  visit the USF 
online  proctoring student  FAQ  and Honorlock  student  resources .   
*A note from  your professor: The above language is direct from the university. Please know 
that your professor understands that there may  be a child, spouse, or animals in the 
background while you are testing.  The purpose of video monitoring is to ensure students are 
not cheating. Common sense is applied here. I do not watch every video, I review ones that 
are “flagged” for suspicious activity.    
 
XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Title IX Policy : (standard USF policy verbiage)  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes 
discrimination based on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an 
effort to provide support and equal access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) 
as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, 
sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes every effort, when 
safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and accommodations, and to discuss 
possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking 
accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For 
information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . I f you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a 
confidential resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974-5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy: (standard USF policy verbiage)  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity
 specifies that students may not use websites that enable 
cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This does apply 
specifically to Chegg.com and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese websites (including 
uploading proprietary materials) constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 Professionalism Policy: Email Etiquette and Communication Expectations:  
-Preferred method of contact is via USF email (ssweiss@usf.edu) . Do not email your instructor 
from your personal email account. Your instructor will NOT respond to emails from personal email 
accounts!  
-Please reference the course (MAN 6930 AND what section you are in - there are multiple sections  
of this course ) in your email subject line  
-Salutation should be professional (Hi Dr. Weiss, Dear Dr. Weiss, etc. Something along the lines of 
Hey, Hey Prof , Mrs. Weiss, or Sandy  is not acceptable ).  
 
10 -Before asking a question, please review the syllabus to ensure that what you are asking is not 
addressed. Be very specific with your question/request. If the question is something that may 
benefit o ther students, post it in the course FAQ section in Canvas.  
-Please allow up to three business days for a response  
 Here are a few links that provide additional guidance on email etiquette:  
https://marktomforde.com/academic/undergraduates/Email-Etiquette.html
    
https://academicpositions.com/career -advice/ho w-to-email-a- professor   
 End of Semester Student Evaluations: (standard USF policy verbiage)  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you by email when the response window o pens. Your 
participation is highly encouraged and valued .  
 A note from your professor: Extra credit - If the class reaches >90% evaluation  completion, 
every student in that section  will receive 5 assignment points. Your professor can not see who 
has completed the evaluation, but can see the overall completion %.  
 
Turnitin.com: (standard USF policy verbiage)  
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized. Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors 
may  use to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as 
well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and 
how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this 
process visit http://www.turnitin.com
. Essays are due at turnitin.com the same day as in class. 
This should occur automatically when you submit your writing assignment. You should not have to do anything extra on your end to run it through Turnitin.  
 Netiquette Guidelines  (standard USF policy verbiage)  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or 
other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your messag e. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
  
 
11 XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  (standard USF policy verbiage)  
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in th e “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their righ ts, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and traini ng that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are  
recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XXI. Important Dates to Remember  
 
All the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor. 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/    
 
12  
 
   
 
13 Tentative Schedule of Assignments  
All assignments subject  to change, please check Canvas for the most up- to-date assignments.  
Week  Required Reading  Optional Reading  Assignment(s)  Assignment 
Due (within 
the week it’s 
assigned)  
One 
 
Oct.  
16-22 Chapter 1. 
Healthcare in the 
United States   1) Chapter 1 PPT Slides  
 
2) Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA) is the 
chief health policy and planning entity for the state of 
Florida. You should be at least somewhat familiar with 
who they are and what they do/regulate - 
https://ahca.myflorida.com    
 
3. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS)  
https://www.cms.gov     
 
4. The Joint Commission (TJC)  
https://www.jointcommission.org/en/     
 
5. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)  
https://www.ahrq.gov/   
 
6. National Quality Forum (NQF)  
https://www.qualityforum.org/Home.aspx    
 
7. National Association for Healthcare Quality (NAHQ)  
https://nahq.org/   1) First Day 
Attendance 
Quiz Thursday at 
5:00pm ET 
(YOU WILL BE 
DROPPED 
FROM THE 
COURSE IF YOU 
DO NOT 
COMPLETE 
THIS TIMELY)  
2) Video 
Introduction 
Post  Sunday by 
11:59pm ET  
3) Chapter 1 
Quiz Sunday by 
11:59pm  
Two  
 
Oct.  
23-29  Chapter 2.  
Ethical and Legal 
Environments  
Chapter 3. 
Healthcare 
Economics  1. Chapter 2 & 3 PPT Slides  
 
2.  American Medical Association (AMA)  
Code of Medical Ethics overview  
https://www.ama -assn.org/delivering -
care/ethics/code -medical- ethics -overview  
 
3. American Nurses Association (ANA)  
The Code of Ethics  for Nurses (The Code)  
https://www.nursingworld.org/practice -
policy/nursing- excellence/ethics/code- of-ethics -
for-nurses/  
 
4. Mayo Clinic  
Living wills and advance directives for medical 
decisions  
https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy -
lifestyle/consumer -health/in -depth/living -1) Discussion 
Post  Initial post by 
Wednesday 
11:59pm ET  
Respond to 2 
classmates' 
posts by 
Sunday 
11:59pm ET  
2) Chapter 2 & 
3 Quiz  Sunday by 
11:59pm   
 
14 Week  Required Reading  Optional Reading  Assignment(s)  Assignment 
Due (within 
the week it’s 
assigned)  
wills/art -20046303  
 
 
5. Becker's Health IT and CIO Report 
https://www.beckershospitalreview.com/healthca
re-information -tech nology/   
 
6.  The Office of the National Coordinator Health 
Information Technology: Health IT Dashboard 
https://dashboard.healthit.gov/quickstats/quicks ta
ts.php   
Three  
 
Oct. 30- 
Nov. 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Chapter 6. 
Managerial 
Problem Solving 
and Decision 
Making  
 
Chapter 9. 
Communicating  
 
 
 
  1. Chapter 5. Healthcare Technology (This is an 
excellent chapter, but we do not have the time to 
complete this entire textbook during this course)  
 
2. Chapter 6 & 9 PPT Slides  1) Discussion 
Post  Initial post by 
Wednesday 
11:59pm ET  
Respond to 2 
classmates' 
posts by Sun 
11:59pm ET  
2) Chapter 6 & 
9 Quiz  Sunday by 
11:59pm ET  
Four  
 
Nov.  
6-12  Chapter 4. The 
Quality 
Imperative: The 
Theory  
 
Chapter 8. The 
Quality 
Imperative: 
Implementation  1. Chapter 4 & 8 PPT Slides  
 
2. Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Quality of 
Health Care in America; Kohn LT, Corrigan JM, 
Donaldson MS, editors. To Err is Human: Building a 
Safer Health System. Washington (DC): National 
Academies Press (US); 2000.  Available from: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK225182  / 
doi: 10.17226/9728   
 
3. National Association fo r Healthcare Quality (NAHQ)  
https://nahq.org/   
 
4. National Quality Fourm (NQF)  
https://www.qualityforum.org/Home.aspx   1) Writing 
Assignment  
  Due by Sun 
11:59pm ET   
 
15 Week  Required Reading  Optional Reading  Assignment(s)  Assignment 
Due (within 
the week it’s 
assigned)  
 
5. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's 
(AHRQ)  
https://www.ahrq.gov/   
 
6. Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI)  
http://www.ihi.org/   
 
7. Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Quality of 
Health Care in America; Ko hn LT, Corrigan JM, 
Donaldson MS, editors. To Err is Human: Building a 
Safer Health System. Washington (DC): National 
Academies Press (US); 2000. Available from: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books /NBK225182/     
 
8. To have a better understanding of how CMS assess 
the impact and efficiency of quality measures, please 
review this website:  
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality -Initiatives -
Patient -Assessment-
Instruments/QualityMeasures/National- Impact -
Assessment -of-the-Centers -for-Medicare -and-
Medicaid -Services -CMS -Quality -Measures -Reports   
 
9. Download and read this PowerPoint from the CMS 
website to gain a better understanding of what goes in 
to quality measure maintenanc e.  
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality -Initiat ives-
Patient -Assessment-
Instruments/MMS/Downloads/Measure -Evaluation -
During- Maintenance -and-the-CMS -National -Impact -
Assessment -%E2%80%93 -webinar.pptx  
Five 
 
Nov.  
13-19 
  Chapter 10. 
Planning 
 
Chapter 11.  
Organizing  
 
 
 
 
  1. Chapter 10 & 11 PPT Slides  
 
2. Consider These Three Decision -Making Criteria 
Before Tackling Any Change Effort  
https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffboss/2015/05/11/c
onsider -these-3- decision -making -criteria- before -
tackling -any-change -effort/#2201d87f785b   
 
3. What Is a Decision Matrix? Definition and Examples  
https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/6146 -decision -
matrix.html   
 1) Discussion 
Post  Initial post by 
Wed 11:59pm 
ET 
Respond to 2 
classmates' 
posts by Sun 
11:59pm ET  
2) Chapter 10 & 
11 Quiz  Sunday by 
11:59pm ET   
 
16 Week  Required Reading  Optional Reading  Assignment(s)  Assignment 
Due (within 
the week it’s 
assigned)  
4. Creating a Purpose -Driven Organization  
https://hbr.org/2018/07/creating-a- purpose -driven -
organization   
Six 
 
Nov.  
20-26 Chapter 12. 
Staffing  
  1. Chapter 12 PPT Slides  1) Discussion 
Post  Initial post by 
Wed 11:59pm 
ET 
Respond to 2 
classmates' 
posts by Sun 
11:59pm ET  
2) Chapter 12 
Quiz  Sunday by 
11:59pm ET  
Seven  
 
Nov. 27 
Dec. 3 Chapter 13.  
Directing  
  1. Chapter 13  PPT Slides  
 
2. Why Emotional Intelligence is Important in 
Leadership  
https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/emotional -
intelligence -in-leadership  1) Discussion 
Post  Initial post by 
Wed 11:59pm 
ET 
Respond to 2 
classmates' 
posts by Sun 
11:59pm ET  
2) Chapter 13 
Quiz  Sunday by 
11:59pm ET  
Eight  
 
Dec.  
4-10  Chapter 14. 
Controlling  1. Chapter 14 PPT Slides  1) Final Exam  Opens one 
week prior - 
DUE BY  
Wednesday  
11:59pm ET  
   2) Discussion 
Post  INITIAL POST 
AND TWO 
RESPONSES 
DUE 
WEDNESDAY 
by 11:5pm ET. 
THIS IS SO 
GRADES CAN 
BE SUBMITTED 
TIMELY. NO 
LATE 
POSTS/RESPON
SES WILL BE 
ACCEPTED.  
You may notice that we omit chapters 5 and 7 from the required reading. Chapter 5 is on Healthcare Technology a nd chapter 7 is on Financial Management. Chapter 5 is 
listed as optional reading in week 3. You will have a Financial Statement Analysis course that will cover much of what chapter 7 entails. It is incredibly difficult to find balance 
between ensuring you get the desired level of information in this course without being entirely overburdening to you - 8 weeks is not enough time! Please reach out to me if 
you have questions within the chapters omitted from the course and we can discuss. You will not be tested on these chapters.  