Page 1 of 9 
  
 
 
 
 
Semester : Fall 202 3 
Class Meeting Days : None (100% online –  asynchronous)  
Class Meeting Time : None (100% online –  asynchronous)  
Class Meeting Location :  None (100% online –  asynchronous)  
Instructor : Dr. Priya Dozier 
Office Location : LPH 4 30 (USF St. Petersburg)  
Office Hours : Virtual via MS- Teams  
Phone Number : 727-873-4896  
Email : Please use  Canvas email  to communicate with the instructor because it automatically 
includes the course information and  keeps student emails separate from all other 
communication , which ensures a faster reply.  
Note: If you email me directly via Outlook, then a reply is not guaranteed.  No MS -Teams 
communication, please.  
 
 
I. Welcome to Principles of Management  
Have you ever looked at a person in a leadership role and thought “I could do a better job?”, if so, 
then this course will give you the insights of what it takes to perform the functions of a manager. 
In this course, you will learn about various  aspects in the field of management , however, you’ll see 
how these concepts relate to any job, regardless  of your role .  This is a survey course, which is 
designed to give you a foundational  understanding of critical business concepts that you’ll build on 
in more advanced business courses and in your career.   
 
II. University Course Description  
Examines moral and ethical responsibilities of managing organizations at the personal, 
interpersonal, and organizational level.  (from USF  Undergr aduate Catalog) 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course.  
 
IV. How to Succeed in this Course  (3 P’s) 
The following are key factors to consider to be successful in this course:  
1. Plug in : Canvas announcements will be used to communicate with students . Please review 
your Canvas notifications to ensure that you receive the most up -to-date information for this MAN3025 :  
Principles of Management  
CRN 80567, Section # 021, Credit Hours 3  
MUMA College of Business  
School of Information Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS 
Last Updated: 8/17/2023  
Page 2 of 9 
 course . Course communication to all students will be done via Canvas announcements. 
Individual student communication will be done via Canvas email.   
2. Plan: All due dates are included in this syllabus and available on Canvas  (see Canvas Calendar) , 
so please review these dates and plan accordingly to ensure that you can commit to the due 
dates. In most cases, students can work ahead on posted assignments . Please plan to do work 
ahead  if you have other commitments  (ex. travel, work, vacation, etc.). Do not wait until the 
end of the semester to cram in the work, you will fail with this approach. Students are 
expected to proactively communicate if/when they might miss an assignment (see the Make -
up Assignment policy  in this syllab us).    
3. Participate : Do not sit back and watch others participate -  stay active in the assignments , 
especially the discussions.  Additionally, add your own unique perspective to the discussions 
versus repeating what others share . Stay up to date on all activities in the course, this is not a 
course where you can check in her e and there, instead, you’ll need to plan time to stay 
engaged on a regular basis, e.g., daily,  or week ly. 
 
V. Course Topics  
This course will provide you  with the foundations for understanding the role of management in an 
organization. This course will cover the general topic areas of planning, organizing, influencing, 
and controlling that are applicable to any industry.   
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, students will be able to:  
a. Describe basic theories, concepts, and effective behavioral  practices that form the foundation 
of modern management.  
b. Explore how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, identity, cultural rules, and biases 
in relation to how they influence the management of a workplace.  
c. Identify and describe major global issues that impact businesses and the management of 
those bu sinesses.  
d. Apply key management concepts to organizational scenarios.  
 
VII. Required Texts, Readings , and Course Materials  
1) Required  Textbook:  
a. Management,  10th edition  © 2022  by Kinicki 
Connect  Access  ISBN:  9781266804502 
Student  Price  (if they  opt-in): $61.76  
Please  see Canvas  Module  1 for book  information  (See  Obtaining the Book  section)  
2) All other assigned material will be available on  Canvas  or via the Connect platform  
 
VIII. Grading Scale  
Final grades will be calculated according to the following points sc ale.   
% Grade   % Grade  
94% - 100%  A 
 74% – 76.99 % C 
90% – 93.99 % A- 70% - 73.99 % C- 
87% – 89.99 % B+ 67% – 69.99 % D+ 
84% – 86.99 % B 64% - 66.99 % D 
80% – 83.99 % B- 61% - 63.99 % D- 
77% – 79.99 % C+  Below 60.99%  F Page 3 of 9 
  
IX. Grade Categories and Weights  
Assignment Name & Description  # of 
Assignments 
(throughout 
the semester)  # of Points 
available 
for e ach % of Total 
Grade  
Syllabus Quiz  (1st day attendance) : to demonstrate knowledge of key 
syllabus points AND  to remain in this course . Uses Honorlock to test setup  1 .5 0.5% 
Personal Introduction s: to introduce  yourself to your classmates  1 .5 0.5% 
Reference and Research Quiz : to improve your understanding of how to 
properly reference sources in your work and to avoid plagiarism  1 1 1% 
Assignments: to apply course concepts to organizational scenarios  2 5 10% 
Mind  Map Assignments : to create an artifact (mind map) to reflect  your 
understanding of course concepts  5 4 20% 
Module Knowledge  Checks: to quickly assess your learning of the modul e 
concepts  via multiple -choice, true/false questions  11 1 11% 
Discussion Board s: to interact with your peers through thoughtful 
discussion related to course concepts  4 1 4% 
Knowledge Test s (Uses Honorlock) : to demonstrate your understanding 
of course concepts via multiple -choice, true false, and essay questions  3 10 30% 
Research Project : to demonstrate research and communication  skills by 
applying core course concepts to  a real -world  organization  via a semester 
long project with multiple deliverables  4 5 20% 
Engagement  Exercises : Participate in community building activities with 
your peers throughout the semester  10 .3 3% 
TOTAL   100% 
Extra Credit: up to 2 percentage points of extra credit points can be 
earned for participating in designated activities  2 1 Up to 2 % 
All work must be turned in via Canvas and according to instructions,  all files must be uploaded to Canvas 
in the correct format,  no emailed or linked assignments (e.g., to shared drives) will be accepted.  If you 
submit a link to the assignments, then they must be accessible. If it is not  accessible, then your grade 
will be 0.  
 
X. Grade Dissemination  
All grades for this course will be available at any time using "Grades" in Canvas. Students will be alerted 
via Canv as notifications when grades are released for manually graded assignments.  Unless otherwise 
noted (e.g., in Canvas Announcements), grades wi ll be posted within 7 days of an assignment’s due date.  
 
Assignment feedback is given via the assignment rubric and/or via annotations within Canvas. All 
feedback provides insights about why points were deducted, all students are expected to review this 
detailed feedback thoroughly. Points will not be deducted without an explanation of why.  
 
Students are expected to contact the course TA  regarding grade feedback questions within 7 days of 
grades posting. Students should not wait until the end of the semester to query feedback given on early 
assignments to boost letter grades. Students are expected to proactively remain engaged in the grading 
process throughout the semester.  
XI. Course Schedule  
FIRST DAY ATTENDANCE : To remain in this course, you must complete the 1st-day attendance 
assignment  in Canvas by 12 PM (noon)  on Friday, August 2 5th, 2023 .  Students who do not respond to 
the 1st-day attendance assignment will be dropped from the course.  
 Page 4 of 9 
 Class Schedule and Assignments  
Module  Topics  Reading  Deliverable List  Due by 11:59 
PM (Eastern)  
unless noted  
1 Course 
Information and 
Resources  Posted Module 1 
Material  Syllabus Quiz  
Personal Introduction   Friday, Aug 25 
at noon   
Reference Quiz  Aug 27  
2 Introduction to 
Management  Posted Module 2 
Material and Chapters 1 -
2 M2 Engagement Exercise  
M2 MindMap #1  
M2 Knowledge Check  Sep 3  
3 Management 
Landscape  Posted Module 3 
Material and Chapters 3 -
4 M3 Engagement Exercise   
M3 Assignment 1  
M3 Knowledge Check  
Research Project Deliverable 1  Sep 10  
4 Strategic 
Management  Posted Module 4 
Material and Chapters 5 -
6 M4 Engagement Exercise   
M4 MindMap #2  
M4 Discussion 1  
M4 Knowledge Check  Sep 17  
5 Decision Making 
in Management  Posted Module 5 
Material and Chapter 7  M5 Engagement Exercise   
M5 Knowledge Check  
Knowledge Test 1 : Ch. 1 – 6 Sep 24  
6 Organizational 
Structure  Posted Module 6 
Material and Chapters 8  M6 Engagement Exercise  
M6 MindMap #3 
M6 Discussion 2  
M6 Knowledge Check  Oct 1 
FYI Mid Term Grades Submitted –  No Action Needed  
7 Org Culture and 
HR Posted Module 7 
Material and Chapters 9  M7 Engagement Exercise   
M7 Discussion 3  
M7 Knowledge Check  
Research Project Deliverable 2  Oct 8 
8 Individual 
Differences  Posted Module 8 
Material and Chapter 11  M8 Engagement Exercise  
M8 Knowledge Check  Oct 15  
9 Motivation  Posted Module 9 
Material and Chapter 12  M9 MindMap #4  
Knowledge Test 2 : Ch. 1-9, 11, 12 Oct 22  
10 Groups and 
Teams  Posted Module 11 
Material and Chapter 13  M10 Engagement Exercise  
M10 Knowledge Check  
Research Project Deliverable 3  Nov 5  
11 Power, 
Influence and 
Leadership  Posted Module 12   
Material and Chapter 14  M11 Engagement Exercise  
M11 Discussion 4 
M11 Knowledge Check  Nov 12 
12 Communication  Posted Module 13 
Material and Chapter 15  M12 Assignment 2  
M12 Knowledge Check  Nov 19 
13 Control  Posted Module 14 
Material and Chapter  16 M13 Engagement Exercise  
Knowledge Test 3 : Ch. 1-9, 11-16  Nov 26 
14 Creativity, 
Innovation  & 
Change  Posted Module 15 
Material and Chapter  10 M14 MindMap #5  
M14 Knowledge Check  
Research Project Deliverable 4  Dec 3 
 Page 5 of 9 
 XII. Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic integrity and 
misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are governed by a central set 
of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be accessed at 
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
XIII. Campus Free Disclaimer Policy  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where 
divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent 
with these principles, this course may involve discussion of i deas that you find uncomfortable  or 
disagreeable.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be 
tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible 
research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain 
ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with 
complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean 
that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
XIV. General Course Policies  
 
Rewrite Policy : Rew rites are not available in this course , instead, students are expected to use the 
generous feedback supplied for each assignment to continue to improve. Additionally, rewrites are not 
fair to the students who completed the assignment, using the same guidelines, correctly.  
There will be no sample assignments provided because  you must  create your own work. Be creative.  
 
Make -up Assignments Policy : Makeup assignment opportunities will be given only for emergencies  
within one week of the original due date.  Students must discuss any reason for missing an assignment 
due date with the instructor in advance of the due date unless the circumstances make  such advance 
notice impossible. Written documentation must be provided to support any reason for missing 
assignment. There are only 6 reasons why a student will be given a makeup assignment opportunity:  
1. Medical purpose : Student must produce a doctor’s no te stating when they were  unable to 
meet the due date.  
2. Death in the immediate family : Student must provide evidence that they were in 
attendance (or in transit to/from) a funeral on or near the  due date.  
3. Major religious holidays: Student must notify the instructor of the conflict within the first 2 
weeks of class  so due date (s) can be adjusted .  
4. Varsity athletic events: a member of a USF athletic team may arrange for a makeup due 
date if a regularly scheduled l eague contest or post- season play falls on an assignment due 
date. A note from the coach will be required to validate the student’s absence.  
5. Jury duty: Student must provide evidence, i.e., a letter from the court, that they  will be 
involved in jury duty.  
6. Military call up: the  appropriate commanding officer must submit a letter indicating the 
student is required to report for duty.  Page 6 of 9 
 The instructor and/or TA will decid e on the validity of the reason for missing a due date  and 
offer make -up due dates.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy :  
Commentary on written will be delivered in written format using the Feedback feature of Canvas and 
any applicable rubric.  Please use the View Feedback feature of Canvas to see annotations from the 
instructor on written assignments.   
 
Final Examinations Policy : There is no final exam in this course.  
"Incomplete"  Grade Policy : An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s 
discretion only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other 
circumstances beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" 
Grade Con tract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the 
student would earn factoring in a zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated 
and extended by student/instructor if it does not exceed two sem esters for undergraduate courses and 
one semester for graduate courses from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade 
not cleared within the two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses 
(including summ er semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract. Students are expected to 
communicate with the instructor regarding “I” grades before grades are submitted to the registrar’s 
office (students will be notified via Canvas email of submission date) . 
XV. Global Citizens Project  
MAN3025 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial requirements of the 
Global Citizen Award upon successful completion of the course (final grade of B or higher). Even if you 
are not applying for t he award, this project is part of the course. An overview is provided in Module 1 
and individual submission details are provided in the modules in which the submissions are due.   
 
Please note that you cannot submit work from a previous class to satisfy th is requirement. If you are 
found submitting work that has already been submitted for another course, you will receive zero for this 
assignment.  
 
XVI. USF Core Syllabus Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic 
continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses at USF . Be sure to revie w 
these online  at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx    
 
XVII. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Minimum Requirements :  
To take courses online at USF, students will need to be able to demonstrate proficiency at basic 
computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and meet the computer system requirements .  
 
This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, 
please review the course videos and/o r consult the Canva s help guides. USF also provides a Page 7 of 9 
 compr ehensive list of guides located here  http://www.usf.edu/innovative -
education/resources/student -services/technical -requirements.aspx  
 
If you have any technical difficulties, then you may also contact USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 
or help@usf.edu . 
 
Email :  
Canvas  email is the best way to get in touch with the instructor and every attempt will be made to 
respond to emails within 24 hours. If you emailed but did not receive a response, then double -check to 
see if the original email was via Canvas email before reaching out again. If you do not receive a response 
within 48 hours, then please send another email with “MAN3025 – 2nd request”  in the  subject line.  
Please use the email functionality within Canvas as the primary mode to contact the instructor because 
it provides insights into the student’s course section automatically.   
 
Due to confidentiality issues, grades will not be released via email or telephone, all grades will be 
available in Canvas.  
 
Email Standards :  
To facilitate clear communication and to help students develop professional communication skills, 
students are required to use a formal strategy when emailing the instructor. This means that emails 
should at a minimum:  
a) Begin with a formal salutation ( ex. Dear Dr. Dozier ) 
b) Provide context or statement of purpose. If you are asking a question, please indicate where you’ve 
already looked for an answer but couldn’t find it ( Ex. I am a student in your ___ class and am  writing 
you to ___. I tried to find the answer in ___, and ___ ). This information is helpful so the course 
content can be updated for future students looking to answer similar questions in the same places.  
c) Avoid using informal language or ‘IM -speak’ ( ex. OMG, BTW ) 
 
Any email that does not conform to the above standard will not be answered, instead, the student will 
receive an autoreply containing the policy above.  
 
Copyrights:  
Materials in this course are protected by United States copyright law [Title 1 7, U.S. Code]. Materials are 
presented in an educational context for personal use and study and should not be shared, distributed, or 
sold in print —or digitally —outside the course without permission.  Students in this class are not 
authorized to provide cl ass notes or other class -related materials to any other person or entity, other 
than sharing them directly with another student taking the class for purposes of studying, without prior 
written permission from the professor teaching this course.  
 
XVIII.  Course Pol icies: Student Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy: Students are expected to engage in the course content on a regular basis to succeed 
in this course, it is not designed to be completed in a single sitting at one point in time.  
 
Course Hero Policy:   
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, 
such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for this purpose. This applies  specifically to chegg.com Page 8 of 9 
 and CourseHero.com – any use of this website (including uploading copyrighted materials) constitutes a 
violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University 
regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window o pens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued.  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course, turnitin.com will be utilized  on all written submissions . Turnitin is an automated system 
which instructors may use to compare each student’s assignment quickly and easily with billions of web 
sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, 
you will be expected to submit all assignments in an electronic format. After the assignment is 
processed, as an instructor I  receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s 
work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
The Writing Studio:  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the Writing 
Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you at any point in the writing process 
from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are recommended . To make an appointment, visit 
https://www.usf.edu/undergrad/academic -success -center/writing -
studio/ http://www.lib.usf.edu/writing/ , stop by LIB 2nd Floor, or call 813 -974-8293.  
 
Health and Wellness:  
Your health is a priority at the University of South Florida. We encourage members of our community to 
look out for each other  and to reach out for help if someone is in need. If you or someone you know is in 
distress, please make a referral at www.usf.edu/sos  so that the Student Outreach & Support can contact 
and provide helpful resources to the student in distress. A 24 -hour licensed mental healthcare 
professional, offered through the counseling center, is available by phone at 813 -974-2831, option 3. 
Please  remember that asking for help is a sign of strength. In case of emergency, please dial 9 -1-1. 
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based on 
pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal access, USF 
has designated all faculty (TA, Ad junct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required to report any 
disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The Title IX Office makes 
every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and a ccommodations, and to discuss possible 
options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in 
person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. For information about Title IX or for a full list of  resources please 
visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title- ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . If you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim 
Advocacy – a confidential resource that can review all your options –  at 813- 974- 5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Confidential Resources (listed below)  are available and will not be required to notify the Title IX office of 
disclosures of sexual harassment. If you are not sure what to do , you are encouraged to contact Victim 
Advocacy to confidentially explore your options including: injunctions & protecti ve orders; changes in 
accommodations, living arrangements, class schedules, & transportation; assistance with academic 
Issues- missed classes, late assignments, etc.  The Title IX Office can also provide academic, on -campus 
housing and USF workplace accommo dations, as well as other supportive measures.  Page 9 of 9 
  
CONFIDENTIAL RESOURCES  NONCONFIDENTIAL RESOURCES  
Victim Advocacy in the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4432  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/victim -advocacy -services/index.aspx   Title IX  
813-974-4373  
https://www.usf.edu/title -ix/ 
Counseling at the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4422  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/psychological -services/index.aspx   Student Outreach & Support  
PMB 101  
727-873-4278  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/student -outreach -program/   
Ombudsman  
Free, confidential conflict res olution  
PNM 105B  
727-873-4184  
https://wwwtest.stpetersburg.usf.edu/resources  
/ombuds.aspx  Student Conduct & Ethical Development  
PNM 101B  
727-873-4278  
Usfsp -conduct@usf.edu   
https://www.usf.edu/student -
affairs/student -conduct -ethical-
development/about -us/contacts.aspx   
Student Health Services at the Wellness Center  
SLC 2200 
727-873-4422  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/wellness/index.aspx   Dean of Students  
PNM 101  
727-873-4278  
https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student -
life/dean -of-students/   
OFF CAMPUS CONFIDENTIAL  OFF CAMPUS NONCONFIDENTIAL  
Suncoast Center  
Rape Crisis Center  
2188 58th St N 
Clearwater, FL 33760  
727-388-1220  
https://www.suncoastcenter.org/sexual -assault -services  Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office  
10750 Ulmerton Rd  
Largo, FL 3 3778 
Nonemergency: 727 -582-6200 
Emergency: 911 
https://www.pcsoweb.com/   
CASA  
Domestic Violence Shelter  
1011 First Ave North  
St. Petersburg, FL 33705 
24/7 Hotline: 727- 895-4912 
https://www.casa -stpete.org/   St. Petersburg Police Department  
1301 First Ave North  
St. Petersburg, FL 33705 
Nonemergency: 727 -893-7780 
Emergency: 911 
https://police.stpete.org/   
  
 
Important Dates to Remember  
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   