         1  
 
 
Instructor:  Marvin Karlins  E-Mail:  MKarlins@usf.edu  
Term:  Fall 2023 Dates:  Aug. 2 1 – Dec. 7 
Delivery 
Method:  Online, Off -campus  Location:  Off Campus / Online  
Minimum  
Technical 
Skills & 
Requirements:  In order to take courses online at USF, you will need to be able to demonstrate 
proficiency at basic computer skills, maintain reliable internet access, and 
meet the computer system requirements listed here:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -
services/technical -requirements.aspx  
Virtual Office 
Hours:  Virtual office hours to be posted.  Be sure to read course announcements for 
details.  Additional hours are available by appointment    
 
 Welcome!  
First and foremost, I hope you are all keeping healthy and safe in these challenging times. 
Beyond that, I wan t to welcome you to MAN 3 025 and tell you how happy I am to share 
some time with you this s emester .   Keeping up with course assignments  will be a 
challenge, but , hopefully, well  worth it as you gain information to make you a better 
manager in the workplac e. 
 
I know, for some of you, that this will be your first online course.   Don’t feel alone:  it’s a  
relatively new teaching experience for me as well !    However, you won’t have to worry 
about driving to class in traffic, finding a parking place and—if you don’t feel like going to 
class at a specific time —having to be there.    Bottom line: I’m looking forward to taking 
advantage of this online learning option and ask you to join me in this exciting 
journey.   And, best of all, you can do it on your  time, in your favorite space, snacking on 
your favorite food.   Bon Voyage!  
 
MAN 3025 :  
Principles of Management  
MAN 3 025, 3 Credit Hours  
MUMA College of Business, School of Information 
Systems and Management  
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 2 
 University Course Description  
Examines intrapersonal, interpersonal, group/team, organizational, and environmental 
(both stakeholder and societal) factors influencing the manageme nt task.  
 
 Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course  
 
 Course Purpose  
This course will provide you with the foundations for understanding the role of 
management in an organization.  This course will cover general areas such as planning , 
organizing, influencing, and controlling that are relevant for any industry.  We will also 
review issues of management such as ethics, diversity, and social responsibility.  
 
 Instructor Contact Information and Communication   
I am very informal.   You may call me by my first name if you prefer; or, if you feel more 
comfortable using titles, then feel free to call me “Professor Karlins.” I am fine either 
way.   I have already provided you with my office hours  and my email address.   Please feel 
free to contact me! That’s what I’m here for.   Please understand I enjoy talking with 
students, and  even though this is not a face -to-face class, it shouldn’t limit our 
opportunity to interact (only the way we do it).   Also, be sure to check your email and 
canvas regularly (at least 3 times a week) for any course updates.   I will be making regular  
announcements that I hope you will find helpful.  
 
 First Week Attendance Policy  
University policy requires that we ascertain if students signed up for the course are  
actually taking it.   In a face -to-face class this is done by a roll call on the first day of 
class.   Online is a bit different.   In this course you will establish your attendance b y 
participating in an introductory discussion board, which can be found in the Getting 
Started Module in Canvas .  Students who don’t complete this activity by the due date will 
be dropped  from the course . Be sure to complete the first part of the discussion board by 
Thursday night, August 2 5, so you won’t be dropped from the cour se.  
 
 How to Succeed in this Course  
Generally, the majority of students in my class get a grade of “B” or better.   As in most 
things in life: the more work you put into this course, the better your grade will be.  It is 
critical that you keep up with your assigned readings and assignments. Please contact me 
immediately if you have any problems or concerns.   Falling behind in online courses  is one 
of the biggest stumbling blocks students face , particularly if they have n’t taken such 
courses in the past.   
 
Make sure you don’t fall into this trap!  
 3 
 Course Structure  
The course will be a learning experience designed around your textbook, reading 
assignments, short writing assignments, and a paper .  Because the course is 
asynchronous, it will be up to each student to do coursework on their own schedule, 
remembering, of course, that everyone will still be expected to meet various course 
deadlines as stated in the syllabus , various course assignments , and/or canvas 
announcemen ts. 
 
 Student Learning Outcomes   
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
• Understand the basic theories, concepts, and effective behavioral practices that 
form the foundation of modern management thought  
• Explore how one’s worldview is shaped by personal values, identity, culture rules, 
and biases in relation to how they influence management of a workplace. (Self -
awareness)  
• Identify and describe major global issues that impact businesses and management 
of those businesses. ( Major global issues)  
• Demonstrate the ability to apply key management concepts  
  
 Required Course Materials   
You will be required to obtain t he following textbook for the course:  
(1) Bateman, Thomas and Robert Konopaske .  M: Management  (7th ed.)  New York : Sage , 
McGraw Hill,  2022.    Make sure it is the 7th edition of the book.   This book will be 
available in the USF bookstore or on sale online.    McGraw Hill  has an interactive 
eBook for $ 45 to rent as well.    
(2) Karlins, Marvin. Life Management 2.0: How to Have the Time of Your Life (2nd ed.) 
Iowa: Kendall Hunt, 2022  2021.  You can choose to order (1) directly from the 
publisher:  To do this go to your browser and type in 
https://he.kendallhunt.com/Karlins .  You can order the EBOOK (ISBN) 978 -1-7924 -
7320 -3 or the PRINT edition (ISBN) 978 -1-7924 -7321 -0.  The price of the digital ebook 
is $16.0 0.  The cost of the hard copy is $17.95. (2) You can purchase the book at the 
University bookstore.  (3) You can  purchase the book on Amazon .  PLEASE NOTE:  I do 
NOT receive any royalties for books sold to my students!!!  
 
 Supplementary (Optional) Texts and  Materials   
Unless otherwise indicated, all materials in Canvas are required.   
 
 Grading Scale   
 
 
Grading Scale (%)   
90-100 A  4 80 - 89 B  
70 - 79 C  
60 - 69 D  
0 - 59 F  
 
 
 Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Here are the various point totals for the classroom activities you will be undertaking.  
There are 1,000 possible points in the course (not counting the extra credit project).  Each 
project you undertake will specify the specific points it is worth.  
 
 
Asse ssment  Percent of Final Grade  
Small Writing Assignments  (6 reflections and 2 
discussion boards)  200 points (20%)  
 
Final Paper (Global Citizens Assignment)  200 points (20%)  
Exams  600 points (60%)  
Extra Credit  Can add up to 30 
points  to your final 
grade  (3%)  
 
 
There will be four  multiple -choice examinations during the semester.  Each test will be 50 items 
in length, with each question counting as three  points.  Thus, each exam will be worth 150 points.  
All exams will be one hour in length an d “open book” (you can refer to your notes and texts 
during the exam).  Once you start the test you cannot pause it; you will have one hour from the 
time you begin the test to complete it.  This is an individual exercise and students should not 
share informat ion about the test either while it is being taken or after it is completed.  The tests 
will NOT be cumulative —text chapters covered on one test will not be examined on other tests.  
Questions will cover chapters assigned in the text.  For the three tests, approximately 75% of the 
questions will come from the Bateman text; the other 25% from the Karlins text.  
 
More information on each of these assignments , including the final paper,  can be found in the 
Modules section of your course shell in Canvas  
 
 Course S chedule  
 
Date  Reading and Video 
Assignments  Assignments Due  
Week 1: 8/2 1-8/27 Read Chapter 1 in both 
textbooks  Post in the First Day 
Attendance Discussion Board 
by Thursday night and Reply 
to 3 of your peers by Sunday  5 Week 2: 8/ 28-9/3 Read Chapter 2 in both 
textbooks; Read the TED 
essay on management and 
watch at least one of the 
relevant talks  TED reflection 1  
Week 3: 9/ 4-9/10 Read Chapter 3 in both 
textbooks  None  
Week 4: 9/1 1-9/17 Read Chapter 4 in both 
textbooks  Take Exam 1 by Sunday 
night at 11:59PM  
Week 5: 9/ 18-9/24 Read Chapter 5 in both 
textbooks , watch the assigned 
TED talk  TED Reflection 2  
Week 6: 9/2 5-10/1 Read Chapter 6 in both 
textbooks  None  
Week 7: 10/ 2-10/8 Read Chapter 7 in both 
textbooks  Action Item Exercise 
Reflection 1 Due by Sunday 
night at 11:59PM  
Week 8: 10/ 9-10/15 Read Chapter 8 in both 
textbooks  Take Exam 2 by Sunday 
night at 11:59PM  
Week 9: 10/1 6-10/22 Read Chapter 9 in both 
textbooks , watch the assigned 
TED talks  TED reflection 3  
Week 10:  10/23-10/29 Read Chapter 10 in both 
textbooks ; Review the 
assignment sheet for the final 
paper  Post in the Leadership 
Discussion Board and reply to 
3 of your peers by Sunday 
night at 11:59PM  
Week 11: 1 0/30-11/5 Read Chapter 11 in both 
textbooks  Action I tem Exercise 
Reflection 2 Due by Sunday 
Night  
Week 12: 11/ 6-11/12 Read Chapter 12 in both 
textbooks  Take Exam 3 by Sunday 
Night at 11:59PM  
Week 13: 11/1 3-11/19 None  Submit the final paper by 
Sunday night at 11:59PM   
Week 14: 11/2 0-26 Read Chapter 13 and 14 in 
both textbooks  Submit Action Item Exercise 
Reflection 3 by Sunday Night 
at 11:59  
 
Week 15: 11/ 27-12/3 Read Chapter s 15 in both 
textbooks , as well as  Chapter 
16 in the Karlins textbook.   Submit the extra credit 
assignment (optiona l) by 
Sunday night at 11:59PM  
Week 16: 12/ 4-12/7  Take exam 4 by Thursday  
night at 11:59PM  
 
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  
 6 
 USF Standard University Policies  
Policies about disability access, religious observances, academic grievances, academic 
integrity and misconduct, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment are 
governed by a central set of policies that apply to all classes at USF. These m ay be 
accessed at: https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx   
 
 Course Policies: Grades   
 
Late Work Poli cy: Unless you have a valid reason (documented medical issue, death in 
immediate family, religious holiday), all graded work (and the extra credit project) 
not turned in on time will receive a grade of “0.” Thus, please be mindful of when 
your various test s and assignments are due.  
Grades of "Incomplete":   The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will 
be followed in this course.   An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a 
small portion of the student’s work is incomplete and only  when the student is 
otherwise earning a passing grade. The time limit for removing the “I” is to be set 
by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit may 
not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in re sidence, 
and/or graduation, whichever comes first.  
 
 Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Course Hero  Policy:  The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not 
use websites that enable cheating, such as by uploading or downloadi ng material for 
this purpose. This applies to websites such as  CourseHero.com – any use of th ese 
website (including uploading materials) constitutes a violation of the academic 
integrity policy.  
 
Sharing of any online materials provided by your instructor  on Canvas : Much of the 
online material for the course is based on the published (or to -be-published) works of 
Professor Karlins , and are his intellectual property.   No part of the lectures (including 
the duplication of power point slides) may be given or sold to anyone (including 
websites that purchase such materials) or used outside of this course in any way 
without his written permission .  Any student caught violating this policy will receive a 
“double F” in the class.   Thank you for your cooperation in this matter.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for 
students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys 
will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you 
by email when the response window o pens. Your participation is highly encouraged 
and valued.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines:  7 1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with 
respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other 
people’ s ideas and be constructive when explaining your views about points you may 
not agree with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There 
will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, politica l and religious 
beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread 
on a discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and 
thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capita l letters, it can be perceived as if you are 
shouting, and it is more difficult to read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before 
changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily 
get your idea or answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see 
your expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.   
 
Email and Discussion Board Guidelines:  
1. Use the su bject line effectively by using a meaningful line of what your email or 
discussion is about.  
2. Keep your emails and postings related to the course content. You should not post 
anything personal on a discussion board, unless is requested by the instructor.  
3. Any personal, course or confidential issues should be directly communicated to the 
instructor via email. The discussion boards are public spaces; therefore,  any issues 
should not be posted there.   
 Global Citizens Project  
MAN  3025 is certified as a Global Citizens course and may be used to fulfill partial 
requirements of the Global Citizens Award upon successful completion of the course 
(final grade of B or higher)  
 
 Course Technology & Student Support  
 
Academic Accommodations:  
Students  in need of academic accommodations for a disability may consult with Student 
Accessibility Services (formerly Students with Disabilities Services)  to arrange appropriate 
accommodations.  Students are required to give reasonable notice prior to requesting an 
accommodation. in order to receive academic accommodations.  
Academic Support Services:  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to 
enhance undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of 
academic support services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student 
Success website at - http://www.usf.edu/student -success/   
 8 Canvas Tec hnical Support:   
Include information where students can find technical support.  
Example: If you have technical difficulties in canvas, you can find access to the canvas 
guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your canvas 
course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emai ling 
help@usf.edu . 
 
Changes to the syllabus:  
 
Although it is highly  unlikely to happen, the course instructor reserves the right to change 
any part of this syllabus if he deems that circ umstances warrant such change(s).  
 
XX.  Extra credit option:  
 
Many of my students have requested the opportunity to do extra credit work to help give 
them the best grade possible.  I am more than happy to do this.  Please note:  You are 
NOT required to do extra credit, it is strictly your decision as to whether or not you want 
to do it.  
 
For those of you who wish to get up to 30 points of extra credit, please follow the 
instructions below .  This will tell you how to sign up to  participate in various research 
studies (you choose which ones you want) which will award you “SONA points” which go 
to your extra credit account.  For this course, ONE “Sona point” is worth THREE  
extra credit point s for this class.  Thus, the most SONA points you will get credit for is  
ten (which equals 30 points in this class).  
 
Instructions for Voluntary Student Participation  
The Customer Experience Lab Tampa  
 
Thank you for considering participation in the Custome r Experience Lab Tampa!  
 
The CE Lab Tampa is designed to enrich your understanding of research while also 
providing you a chance to earn extra credit for your course(s). You may have the 
opportunity to participate in studies offered either online  or in-person. 
 
You will earn SONA points in exchange for each study completed: 1 SONA point for each 
15-minute online  study or 4 SONA points for each in-person  study. Your professor will 
determine how much that credit is worth in your course. Please check your cour se 
guidelines or confer with your professor to confirm how many studies you should 
complete to earn full extra credit.  
 
Below are instructions outlining two (2) simple steps  you need to take to participate.  
 
Step 1: Create Your SONA Account (~2 minutes to complete)  9 SONA is an online management system where you can view and participate in online 
studies offered by the CE Lab Tampa. However, you must  first create  a SONA account for 
yourself.  
 
Note : Every student must create a SONA account  even if you have par ticipated in a 
previous semester. Every student SONA account is deleted from the SONA system at the 
end of each semester.  
 
1. Go to https://usf -cmsi.sona -systems.com  
2. Click on t he light green ‘ USF NetID Log In ’ button.  
3. Select the CORRECT  course(s) for which you want to earn extra credit. (e.g., ‘Morgan, 
MAR 4933, Social Media Marketing’)  
4. If you are in multiple  courses  offering this extra credit option, make sure to select each  
course  to ensure they are linked to your account.  
5. Click ‘ Request Account ’. Once you receive a confirmation email, you are good to go!  
 
Step 2: Check for Available Studies and Participate  
1. Go to https://usf -cmsi.sona -systems.com  and l og in using the light green ‘ USF NetID Log 
In’ button.  
 
2. Click on the ‘ Available Studies ’ button on your account hom epage. You are eligible to 
complete any study you see on this page. The CE Lab Tampa Management team will 
send email notifications when studies are available but you can also check this page on a 
regular basis.  
*You can only complete each study once  and yo u can only  apply the credit you earn for a 
single study to one course (i.e., you cannot apply the same credit to multiple courses).  
3. Online studies : To participate, click on the Study Title  and then ‘ View Study Website ’. 
This will immediately re -direct you to a separate page (or tab) where you can complete 
the online session.  
 
In-person studies : Click on the Study Title and sign up for a study timeslot. Arrive to the lab 
– BSN 2404 – 5 minutes before your scheduled timeslot. Please do not bring food/drink.  
 
4. Once you’ve completed a study, navigate to the ‘ My Schedule/Credits ’ tab from your 
SONA homepage to confirm you received credit. **If you are in multiple courses, click 
“Reassign Credit ” to choose the course you want the credit to go towards.**  
 
 
BEST WISHES FOR A GREAT SEMESTER!  
 