Last Updated  7/27/2023          1  
 
 
 
MAN6055.350F 23 
Organizational Behavior and Leadership  
3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS 
 
Semester: Spring  2023 
Class Meeting Days /times : N/A – onlin e/asynchronous course  
Instructor:  Dr. Sandy Weiss  
Office Location:  MS Teams  
Office Hours:  Appointment available upon request (really, please email me!)  
Email:  ssweiss@usf.edu   
 
 
I. Welcome ! 
Welc ome  to Organizati onal Behavi or and Leader ship. This c ourse will introduce y ou to 
concepts found  in the organizati onal behavi or literature that w ill help y ou as y ou progre ss in 
your career. This c ourse will help y ou to take the academic c oncepts and apply them to day-
to-day situations. The course will be taug ht from the perspectiv e that you are or will som eday 
be a leader in an  organizati on. 
 
II. University Course Description 
An examinati on of the theory a nd practice of manageme nt, includi ng the study  of goals a nd 
mea ns, the functions of management, a nd the administrative proce ss in general (U SF 
Graduate Catal og). 
 
III. Course Prerequisites  
There are no prerequisites for this course.  
 
IV. Course Purpose  
This course will serve as a survey of topics required to help you be a successful employee, manager, and colleague in the workplace. The purpose is to introduce you to and have you examine a series of organizational behavior concepts beneficial to functioning in any type of organization.  
 
This course will cover the following topics: attitudes, culture, cognitions/decision- making, conflict 
management, ethics, leadership, motivation, power and influence, stress, teamwork, and traits.  
 
 
 
 
2 V. Course Format  
This course will be 100% online and asynchronous. It is designed for you to work at your own pace, yet 
allows you the opportunity to engage with me and your colleagues.  
 
Successful students should follow these practical tips:  
1. Check Canvas and emails daily for announcements  
2. Work off of the Module page to see the expectations for each week.  
3. When possible, plug in to a wired internet connection, rather than rely on Wi -Fi 
4. If new to Canvas, read this guide  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
1. Comprehend and explain major theories, concepts, and principles of 
organizational behavior (OB) and leadership . 
2. Apply major theories, concepts, and principles of OB and leadership in new situations . 
3. Analyze issues of OB and leadership using appropriate methods . 
4. Create and evaluate solutions based on scientific knowledge and evidence . 
 VII. Course Objectives  
1. Remember and understand major theories, concep ts, and principles related to the 
covered topics . 
2. Understand the importance of and connections among the covered topics . 
3. Analyze issues related to the covered topics within theoretical frameworks . 
4. Create and evaluate solutions based on theories, principles , and research evidence.  
 
VIII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Organizational Behavior,  University  of Minnesota  Libraries  Publishing  , ISBN 13: 
9781946135155, Open -sourced: 
https://open.umn.edu/opentextbooks/textbooks/organizational -behavior  
• Lippitt, M.B (2014). Brilliant or Blunder: 6 ways leaders navigate unc ertainty, 
opportunity and complexity.  
• One Leadership Book from the Leadership Book List (See canvas) provided under the 
Leadership Book Presentation Information.  
• Articles Available through Canvas.  
 
IX. Academic Continuity  
Should we experience any events suc h as a hurricane that would interrupt the course, please watch for 
an email from me. I will email you and make an announcement about any deadline changes or course 
modification due to unforeseen events.  
 X. Communication  
If you would like to communicate with me, please email me at ssweiss@usf.edu
. This is how  you are 
most likely to get my attention. Please also watch for emails (sent through canvas) t o you. Please allow  
 
3 up to three business days for a response. If I do not respond to you within that timeframe, ping me 
again - I am never intentionally not responding, but could have accidentally  missed your email.  
 
XI. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
94 – 100 A 74 – 76 C 
90 – 93 A- 70 – 73  C- 
87 – 89 B+ 67 – 69 D+ 
84 – 86 B 64 – 66 D 
80 – 83 B- 60 – 63 D- 
77 – 79 C+ 0 – 59 F 
 
XII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Requirement  # @ Value per Each  Total Point Value  
Syllabus Quiz  1 @ 1 point each  1 point  
Video Introduction  1@ 5 point s each  5 point s 
Lecture Quizzes   12 @ 2 points each  24 points  
Discussion/Assignment Posts  5 @ 8 points each  40 points  
Leadership Concept Presentation  1 @ 10 points each  10 points  
Leadership Book Presentation  1 @ 20 points each  20 points  
 Total Point Value  100 points  
 
 
XIII. Assignment Details  
Any general questions should be posted in the FAQs section of the discussion board!  
 Each assignment is described in detail on the canvas modules page. Please see the module the project is due for the information, except for the Leadership Book Presentation. Since it is the largest project, it is 
introduced in Module 1. START WORKING ON TH E LEADERSHIP BOOK PRESENTATION ASAP!  
 Any writing assignment for this course should be in APA format, especially regarding  the citation of 
sources. This is a graduate level course and the expectation for any writing to be at that level. If you are 
not familiar  with APA formatting or have questions regarding your writing, please post in the FAQs section 
of the course, email Dr. Weiss, or consult the USF Writing Center (this is a great FREE service!!).  
 
If a source is not cited, that is considered plagiarism and will be treated as such.  
 
Discussion posts will consist of the body of your post and references (no need for the hanging indentation in Canvas, but please follow APA in general when citing). Any papers submitted will need a cover page, the body of the paper, and a references page. A table of contents and abstract is not necessary.  
 
XIV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dis semination  
You should expect to see a grade for discussion posts and other assignments within two weeks of  the 
submission. Grades are generally posted within a few days to a week, but please allow up to two weeks. 
Any quizzes in Canvas are graded automati cally, and those grades should post immediately or within  
 
4 minutes. Extra credit grades will be updated, generally, within 24 hours of completing the requirements 
of the assignment.   
 
XV. Course Schedule. 
Module  Topics  Deliverable Due Date  
0/1 Getting Started / 
Introduction to 
Organizational  Behavior  Syllabus Quiz  
 
     
Video Introduction  
Lecture Quiz  
 Thursday  
August 24th by noon  
IF YOU DO NOT 
COMPLETE THIS TIMELY, 
you WILL be DROPPED 
from the course!  
 
 
Sunday   August 27 by 
11:59pm   
Sunday  
2 Attitudes,  Job Satisfaction,  
Emotions  and Moods  Lecture Quiz  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
September 3  by 
11:59pm  
3 What  goes  into Decision  
Making?  Lecture Quiz  Sunday  
September 10  by 
11:59pm  
4  Motivation  Lecture Quiz  
Discussion Board   Sunday  
September 10  by 
11:59pm  
5 Leadership: Introduction, 
History and Situational 
Mindsets (Inventing, 
Catalyzing, and Developing )  
3 Lecture Quiz zes  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
September  17 by 
11:59pm  
6 Leadership: Performing, 
Protecting and Challenging 
Mindsets  Lecture Quiz  
 Sunday  
September  17 by 
11:59pm  
7 Leadership: Select Current 
Topics in Leadership  Lecture Quiz  
Leadership Concept 
Presentation  Sunday  
September 24  by 
11:59pm  
8 Power and Communication   Lecture Quiz  
 Sunday  
October 1  by 11:59pm  
9 Organization  Structure,   
Control  and Culture   Lecture Quiz  
  Sunday  
October 1 by 11:59pm  
10 HR, Organizational Change 
and Stress Management  Lecture Quiz  
Discussion Board   Sunday  
October 8  by 11:59pm   
 
5 11 Culture  and Diversity   Reading Quiz  
Discussion Board  Sunday  
October 8  by 11:59pm  
12 Final  Presentation   
Final Presentation  
 Sunday   
October 15  by 11:59pm  
* Note: The Schedule is subject to revision  at the instructor’s discretion  
 
XVI. USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and 
grievances, student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses at USF . Be sure to review 
these online : 
usf.edu/provost/faculty -success/resources- policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -
statements.aspx     
 XVII. Course Policies: Grades   
 Late Work Policy :  
You should be able to work within  the deadlines but understand that unexpected things may come up in 
your life. This is an asynchronous  course that allows  you to work ahead and plan your schedule 
accordingly; y ou may submit assignments  up to two weeks ahead  in this course. If you are unable to 
make a deadline, please inform your instructor  by email BEFORE THE DEADLINE ssweiss@usf.edu.
  Late 
work will not be accepted without being prearranged with Dr. Weiss.   
 
Medical Issues :  
Students should not attend  events or  class es if they are ill, particularly if they have fever and/or 
gastrointestinal symptoms and/or respiratory symptoms such as a sneezing, runny nose, sore throat or coughing.  Students experiencing any of these symptoms should  contact  immediately the  Student Heal th 
Services (813 -974-2331) on the Sarasota- Mantatee and Tampa campus or the Wellness Center (727 -873-
4422) .  
 
Extra Credit Policy :  
Information on Extra Credit in this course is available in Canvas.  
 Grades of "Incomplete" :  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion 
only when students are unable to complete course requirements due to i llness or other circumstances 
beyond their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Contract Form that describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a zero f or all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by 
student/instructor as long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses and  one 
semester  for graduate courses  from the original date grades were due for that cou rse. An "I" grade not 
cleared within the  two semesters for under graduate courses and one semester for graduate courses 
(including summer semester) will revert to the grade noted on the contract.  
 
Attendance Policy:   
 
6 Attendance will not be taken in this course, EXCEPT for the first week. You are required to complete the 
syllabus quiz to record your attendance and affirm th at you do intend to take this course.  
 Campus Free Expression:  
It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent with these principles, this course may involve discussion of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested by critical peer review and rigorous debate, and that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain 
ideas are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with 
complex ideas and to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to believe it or agree with it.  
 
Make -up Exams Policy : 
There are not make- up tests or quizzes.  
 Rewrite Policy :  
Rewrites are not offered in this course.   
XVIII.  Course Policies : Technology and Media  
 
Canvas : This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need 
help learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other  courses being offered in 
Canvas, please view the following videos or consult the Canvas help guides. You may also contact USF's 
IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 XIX. Course Policies: Student Expectations   
 
Health and Wellness :  
Your health is a priority at the University of South Florida. We encourage members of our community to 
look out for each another and to reach out for help if someone is in need. If you or someon e you know is 
in distress, please make a referral at www.usf.edu/sos
 so that the Student Outreach & Support can 
contact and provide helpful resources to the student in distress. A 24 -hour licensed mental healthcare 
professional, offered through the counseling center, is available by phone at 813 -974-2831, option 3. 
Please remember that asking for help is a sign of strength. In case of emergency, please dial 9 -1-1. 
 
Title IX Policy :  
Title IX provides federal protections for discrimination based on sex, which includes discrimination based 
on pregnancy, sexual harassment, and interpersonal violence. In an effort to provide support and equal 
access, USF has designated all faculty (TA, Adjunct, etc.) as Responsible Employees, who are required 
to report any disclosures of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence or stalking.  The 
Title IX Office makes every effort, when safe to do so, to reach out and provide resources and 
accommodations, and to discuss possible options for resolution.   Anyone wishing to make a Title IX  
 
7 report or seeking accommodations may do so online, in person, via phone, or email to the Title IX Office. 
For information about Title IX or for a full list of resources please visit:  https://www.usf.edu/title -
ix/gethelp/resources.aspx . I f you are unsure what to do, please contact Victim Advocacy – a confidential 
resource that can review all your options – at 813 -974- 5756 or  va@admin.usf.edu . 
 
Course Hero  / Chegg  Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students ma y not use websites that enable cheating, 
such as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com 
and CourseHero.com – almost a ny use of th ese website s (including uploading proprietary materials) 
constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy .  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:  All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the 
University will notify you by email when the response window opens. Your participation is highly 
encouraged and valued .  
 
Turnitin.com:  
In this course,  turnitin.com  will be utilized. Turnitin  is an automated system which instructors may  use to 
quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you will be expected to submit  
all assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a more detailed look at this proces s visit http://www.turnitin.com
. Essays are due at 
turnitin.com the same day as in class.  
 Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.   
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs or other general differences.   
3. Proofread and check sp elling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting, and it is more difficult to read. Follow APA formatting/style of writing .   
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or answers they are looking for. Be clear with your message.  
 
XX. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota- Manatee campuses.
  
 
8 SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support services 
available to all USF students, please visit the Office of S tudent Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.
 
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse by promoting the 
restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.
 
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 Writing Studio  
The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointme nts are recommended, but not required. For more 
information or to make an appointment, email: writingstudio@usf.edu
.  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota- Manatee campus.  
 
XXI. Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 