Template revise d: 09/6/2022          1  
 
 
 
QMB 32 53: Business Honors Advanced Statistics  
CRN: 87095 , Section # 601 (f2f In -Class Lecture section), 3 Credit Hours  
 
COURSE SYLLABUS  
 
 
Semester: Fall 2023 
 
Class Meeting Day  & Time : Wedn esday  11:00 am – 1:45 pm 
Class Meeting Location:  USF S t. Pete  Campus   Building -Room : LPH-327 
 
Instructor:   Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu  
Office Location:   USF Sarasota -Manatee Campus  Building -Room: SMC -C229  
Office Hours:    To be held remotely on Microsoft Teams – Schedule  to be announced.   
Email:    RGovindu@usf.edu  
 
Note:  This is a 3 -credit hour course. A 3 -credit hour course means  3 hours per week of in -class instruction over 
the semester. Time for course preparatio n and r eading assignments; and time for completing homework 
assignments, quizzes, and exams  will be extra (outside of instructional time) just like any other course students 
take.  
 
I. Welcome!  
Dear Students, Welcome to the new  semester. In this “Business Honors Advanced Statistics” course . You will 
learn critical thinking, problem solving, analytical skills that would help you throughout your career in business 
and industry. The purpose of QMB 32 53 is to help students in acquiring skills to apply statistical tools and 
techniques in business analytics and decision making in various business environments. This course integrates 
Excel into the course. When mastered, and through practice and experience,  these skills can help get into 
high paying jobs, and help with career development.  
 
II. University Course Description  
QMB 3253 Business Honors Advanced Statistics is a “comprehensive course in statistics for Business Honors 
students. Includes the application of statistical concepts to business problems.”  
 
III. Course Purpose   
QMB 32 53 is the second course in Statistics. It builds upon the foundation established in your first course in 
Statistics. The purpose of QMB 32 53 is to prepare students to appreciate the role statistics plays in business 
analytics and decision making. In particular, the course emphasizes and prepares students to “learn concepts and 
methods”, “solve/analyze problems”, “interpret reports and extract useful information for the decision makers, 
and “be ready to apply” the concepts and methods in practice in industry o r in research, rather than learn 
calculations alone. This is a Business Foundation course with a minimum “C -“ grade is required . 
(https://catalog.usf.edu/content.php?catoid=13&navoid=1486#college -level -requirements ). 
 
 
 
2 IV. Course Topics  
• Descriptive Statistics  
• Probability Distributions  
• Estimation  
• Hypothesis Testing  
• Categorical Data Analysis – Chi-square Tests  
• Analysis of Variance  
• Simple Linear Regression  
• Multiple Regression  
• Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
 
V. Course Objectives  
Through this course, students would develop a working knowledge and expertise on how to apply 
statistical methods to business problems. In particular, students will be able to:  
1. Strengthen fundamentals  of descriptive statistics, probability distributions , and apply estimation in 
business applications.  
2. Formulate hypothesis from the problem statement and learn to perform analyses . 
3. Interpret statistical results generated from a selected software program and communicate the findings 
in simple terms to the decision -maker.  
4. Identify opportunities for and learn to apply statistical tests on Categorical data such as contingency 
analysis and goodness of fit tests.  
5. Explain the basis and apply Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) techniques on data from 
experiments/observational studies in business.  
6. Identify application opportunities and learn to perform simple linear and multiple regression analyses, 
extract valuable information, and apply the results for predictions and improved business decision -
making.  
7. Analyze Time -series patterns and learn to apply forecasting methods for various business 
applications.  
 
VI. Student Learning Outcomes  
At the conclusion of the course students should be able to:  
1. Apply statistical analysis procedures on diverse business applications.  
2. Develop hypothesis from a problem statement, choose an appropriate statistical technique to apply given the 
problem context, perform the analysis; and most importantly, interpret the reports/results, and develop well -
reasoned and evidence -based conclusions . 
3. Learn to perform hypotheses tests on categorical data using Chi -Square goodness of fit tests and tests of 
independence . 
4. Understand the principles of designed experimentation, identify an appropriate experimental design to 
perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) on data from experimental/observational studies; develop hypothesis 
statements, perform the analysis, understand, and  interpret ANOVA output from a select software; and 
develop conclusions . 
5. Develop both simple and multiple regression models from given data, understand and interpret regression 
analysis output from a select software package, test hypotheses, and infer relationships between variables, 
and make predictions on response.  
6. Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series data, select appropriate forecasting techniques given 
the pattern, develop forecasts and forecast accuracy measures to identify the best forecasting method . 
 
  
 
3 VII. Required Texts and/or Readings and Course Materials  
• Modern Business Statistics with Microsoft Excel | 7th Edition by David R. Anderson/Dennis J. 
Sweeney/Thomas A. Williams/Jeffrey D. Camm/James J. Cochran/Michael J. Fry/Jeffrey W. Ohlmann, 
CENGAGE, ISBN: 9780357131381  
You can buy a new textbook, a used copy, rent it, or buy an eBook – whatever works out to be cheaper 
for you.  
• Course Material (Word Documents) by Dr. Anurag Agarwal, Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu, and Dr. 
Kwangtae Park  
These mandatory documents are posted on Canvas “free -of-cost” for student use. These documents 
integrated Excel into them. The usage  of Excel is mandatory  in this course .  
• In this course we use “Microsoft Excel” extensively. Usage of other spreadsheet applications such as 
Google Sheets, OpenOffice, and others is not acceptable. If you don’t have Microsoft Office on your 
system, as a student of USF you are allowed free download and installation of Microsoft Office for 
personal use. Check out the info at:  https://www.usf.edu/it/documentation/office365/personal -
download.aspx . 
 
VIII. Supplementary (Optional) Texts and Materials  
Additional supplementary (optional) documents may be posted on Canvas if and as needed for the benefit of 
students. These documents will help students expand their knowledge. However, students will not be tested on 
the content.  
 
IX. How to Succeed in this Course  
There is no way to do well in the course without learning. Just follow all the instructions and directions 
provided in the detailed schedule in this document and in weekly communications. Always be on time with 
learning and complete all the tasks on time. Follow the process steps as outlined here. Do not skip any step 
or short -circuit the process in anyway.  
i. Complete the reading assignments before class by Tues day every week. Practice solving solved 
example problems in the course material word documents and in the textbook.  
ii. In class (f2f) section students – attend classes in person on all Wednes days for the entire duration.  
iii. Practice solving the solved example problems discussed in class on the PPT and in the demo video 
recordings on your own first. If you are able to solve those problems correctly on your own, that is an 
indication that learning has happened.  
iv. Start working on homework assignment problems in Excel so on after it opens up after class on 
Wednesday. The sooner you get started, the more time you will have to work on them and to seek 
help if and as needed. Do not wait until the day of submission or even the final hours to get started 
on HW assignments. Submit your homework report (as an Excel  file) before the deadline,  typically 
11:59 p.m. the following Monday (see the detailed schedule in this document for the deadlines). No 
late submissions are allow ed for any reason. Students must meet deadlines for their own learning.  
v. Prepare well and submit Quiz before its deadline,  typically 11:59 p.m. the following Monday (see the 
detailed schedule in this document for the deadlines). No late submissions are allowed for any reason. 
Students must meet deadlines for their own learning.  
vi. Complete all the tasks assigned – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams. HW assignments is where you 
learn. Don’t miss work and lose points unnecessarily.  
vii. Review homework and quiz solutions after they are posted to bridge any gaps in learning. Seek help 
if and as needed.  
viii. Prepare well for exams. Solve all the problems on the exam. Do not provide random and irrelevant 
answers. Any additional input  will be provided in the review session recordings. If you follow the 
above advice , you will do well.  
  
 
4 X. Academic Continuity  
During any semester, there is a possibility the course may be disrupted, whether due to continued pandemic or 
hurricane season. If the university transitions  to remote instruction , classes will be held via live, synchronous 
sessions using Microsoft Teams  and attendance  will be required just like in regular classes. You will find the Teams 
sessions links on your USF Email calendar and Microsoft Teams calendar. All course material will be in our course 
on Canvas.  
 
XI. Communication  
I will communicate with you through Emails from Canvas Inbox. You must also communicate with the instructor 
and the teaching assistant through E -mails from Canvas Inbox. You will find information on tone and etiquette 
when communicating under “Course Policies: Technology and Media .” I should be able to respond to your e -mails 
within a day or two at the max  depending on weekday/weekends . It can be a bit longer if I am travelling and out of 
network reach. But I will do my best to respond to you as quickly as I can.  
 
XII. Grading Scale  
 
Grading Scale (%)  
96.50 – 100%  A+ 
91.50 – 96.49%  A 
89.50 – 91.49%  A- 
86.50 – 89.49%  B+ 
81.50 – 86.49%  B 
79.50 – 81.49%  B- 
76.50 – 79.49%  C+ 
71.50 – 76.49%  C 
69.50 – 71.49%  C- 
66.5 – 69.49%  D+ 
61.50 – 66.49%  D 
59.50 – 61.49%  D- 
0 – 59.49%  F 
 
It is mandatory that students must write all the three exams to be held in order to earn a final grade /passing 
grade  in the course. Students who do not attempt all the three exams will be assigned an “F” grade.  
 
Your score determines your grade. No individual requests for grade adjustments shall be  entertained . 
 
XIII. Grade Categories and Weights  
 
Assessment  Weights (% of 
Final Grade)  
Homework Assignments  (Individual Task – on-line submission through Canvas)  25% 
Quizzes  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20% 
Exam #1  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 15% 
Exam #2  (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20% 
Exam # 3 (administered online using Google Chrome, Canvas, and Honorlock ) 20% 
 
  
 
5 XIV. Additional Details on the Course Assignments and Grading Policies  
 
COURSE PARTICIPATION:  
Course participation on Canvas is mandatory on all weeks during the semester . It is mandatory that in-class 
section students must attend and actively participate (simply attending will not be enough) in class the entire 
class duration. There will be no allowances, and concessions on this requirement.  The nature of the course 
is such, and there is also strong evidence that students who participate in the course every week, stay in class 
the entire time; end up learning the subject matter better and earn good grades. Students must not only 
attend but engage themselves in the course proceedings through active participation,  and practice along in 
class all the problems that the professor demonstrates . Every in-class section student will be tracked for their 
attendance and class participation.  
 
Since Quizzes and Homework assignments are all announced at the beginning of the semester along with 
their deadlines on Canvas; they are due by the deadline indicated irrespective of whether you attended 
the class or missed the class due to various reasons . There will be NO allowances, concessions, or make -up 
work be given for missed HW Assignments and Quizzes that will be assigned zero points. Exams are due as 
indicated in the schedule. No make -up exams will be given for any one for any reason. Students do n’t need 
to do any extra work, all that they have to do is just complete the work assigned as indicated on time and 
every  time . 
 
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS:  
All homework assignments are individual tasks. Every week specific topic/s will be covered along with solved 
example problems. Homework will be assigned by 2 p.m. the day of class  (Wedn esday)  that consists of a set 
of problems similar to the solved example problems discussed in class/on PPT files. You will have sufficient 
time as indicated on the detailed schedule to solve the problems and to create a Report in Excel. Submit your 
report as an E xcel file on Canvas before the due date and time indicated. Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED for 
solving HW  problems. If Excel is not used (along with Excel functions and Excel Data Analysis Toolpak  options), 
zero points will be recorded for the HW assignment.  
 
The strict deadline for HW submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern the following Monday as indicated on 
Canvas . For your convenience, they are also listed in the Detailed Course Schedule at the end of this 
document. There will be no extension of due dates. No late submissions will ever be allowed . Be prepared to 
lose HW points if the Report is not turned in  before the deadline . No e -mail  submissions or hard -copy 
submissions are accepted . All HW scores shall count towards final  grade . Homework Reports will be graded 
for Relevancy and Completeness but not for  Accuracy . As long as the submissions are on time, relevant, 
complete, and all the problems  are solved,  you get full points . Irrelevant solutions will earn you zero 
points . You will get  partial credit for partial/incomplete solutions and submissions . HW report must 
demonstrate  student’s own work . If any HW reports are found to be copied, all the students who helped 
and/or received help shall be treated as violators, will receive zero points, and be reporte d for academic 
dishonesty. Solutions for HW assignments will be made available within a couple of days past the deadline. 
It is your responsibility to compare solutions provided with your answers and learn from them  in preparation 
for exams. If you have any questions or need help, you MUST seek help from the instructor or student tutor 
as needed for your own benefit. Please remember that solving Homework Assignments on your own is the 
most  important step in preparing for exams . Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using 
external resources, tutors, hiring tutors to finish the assignments, using tutoring websites such as 
Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Submitting  work of tutors ’ and 
classmates ’ (as your own), and reports from tutoring websites such as Chegg.com … etc., and all other 
modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic 
dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly  under university policies.  If you do not use  
 
6 Excel, Excel functions, formulas, and do not generate Excel reports; and do not submit Excel file as your 
HW report; your HW report will not be graded and zero points will be recorded as your grade. There will be 
no exceptions to this requirement.  
 
READING ASSIGNMENTS AND QUIZZES:  
Reading Assignments are mandatory. Complete course material word document chapter readings and 
practice them in Excel before the deadlines indicated prior to attending class. As you read the chapters, work 
out the solved example problems in Excel. If you are not doing  what is required to be done before 
attending classes, you are not doing what is essential for  succeeding in this course.  All Quizzes are 
individual tasks, typically multiple choice and/or fill -in the blank type. Quizzes are open book and open 
notes type and will test student understanding for the subject matter and not rote memorization nor the 
student ability to search out for answers because they will be of open book -open note type. You need to 
really learn the material and understand the subject to do well on quizzes. There will be Ten Quizzes in all as 
indicated in the detailed schedule. Every week specific topics  will be covered in class. Once a chapter is 
completed, an on -line quiz will be assigned on Canvas using Honorlock . Each quiz cons ists of a set of 
“multiple choice or Fill in the Blank” questions. You will have sufficient time to complete the Quizzes held on 
Canvas - Honorlock . Quiz will be assigned usually by 2 p.m. on Wedn esday.  The strict deadline for Quiz 
submission will be 11:59 p.m. US Eastern on Monday the following week as indicated on Canvas . It always 
helps and perhaps your performance will be better if the quiz is attempted after completing the homework. 
Each quiz will be timed and must be completed within the allotted  time  before the deadline indicated . All 
quiz scores shall count towards final grade . A missed quiz will result in a score of zero. Solutions f or the 
quizzes will be made available within a couple of days past the deadline. Academic dishonesty will be dealt 
with very strictly under university policies. Quizzes are administered online in Canvas using Honorlock  
based on USF system policies. Honorlock  violations will be reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding 
with classmates and other students/people, using external resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as 
Chegg.com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly prohibited. Violators wil l receive zero points and 
be reported for academic dishonesty. Academic dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university 
policies.  
 
EXAMS:  
Exams are individual tasks . There will be three exams and all of them are held  on Canvas - Honorlock  and 
must be completed within the time window indicated . Students cannot miss an Exam. No make -up exams 
are given . You must make sure you complete the exam and submit your file on time or be prepared to lose 
points. Exams will be open textbook  and open notes type . You are allowed to use laptops and perform 
calculations using Excel.  
Microsoft Excel MUST BE USED and for solving Exam problems. If Excel is not used (along with  Excel 
functions and Excel Data Analysis Toolpak options), zero points will be recorded for the  Exams. While there 
will be certainly number crunching involved, it will not be a major focus, and it will be  minimized  as much  as 
possible.  Exams  will test the student  understanding  for the application of the methods and interpretation of 
results. Problems on exams will be like the HW problems. You would not need statistical packages for the 
exams. Exams will be graded for Accuracy. All exam scores shall count towards final grade . Exams are 
administered online in Canvas using Honorlock  based on USF system policies. Honorlock  violations will be 
reported for academic dishonesty. Colluding with classmates and other students/people, using external 
resources, tutors, tutoring websites such as Chegg .com … etc., and all other modes of cheating is strictly 
prohibited. Violators will receive zero points and be reported for academic dishonesty. Academic 
dishonesty will be dealt with very strictly under university  policies.  
 
 
  
 
7 XV. Instructor Feedback Policy & Grade Dissemination  
 
Any feedback will be provided on Canvas. Grades will be posted on Canvas typically within a week or two past the 
deadline after resolving for any student issues.  
 
All submissions happen on Canvas. The instructor  will respond to email communication relevant to the subject 
matter within 48 hours of the date received. Students will know their Quiz score immediately after submission but 
not solutions key. For academic integrity reasons, Quiz solutions and HW solution s will be made available within 1 -
2 days after the deadline passes (after resolving any issues). Grades and comments (as appropriate) for Homework 
assignments and Exams will be posted on Canvas typically with in 1-2 weeks past the respective due dates. If any 
delays happen beyond that time -frame due to unforeseen circumstances, students will be informed of the 
possibility of delays through e -mail. You can access your scores at any time using "Gradebook" in Canvas after they 
are posted.  
 
XVI. Extra Credit Task – Bellini Certification Program Introduction  
 
The Bellini Certification Program is designed to increase your internships and post -graduation job placement in 
roles graduates want, with employers they want to work for.  Given the importance of student career success, 
Program elements are incorporated into curriculum in four Levels, beginning Fall semester, 2023.  Students will 
also be guided by a team of advisors who help them chart their course and gain the skill set and internships they 
need t o achieve their goals.  
 
Starting with the Introduction to Bellini Center and Certification Program, you will engage with the content in 
Canvas as incorporated by your professor.  You’ll also see an Introduction to Level 3, which explains the purpose 
and content of the activities,  and a Canvas page with an estimated time for completion for each step.  As you 
progress through each activity and assignment you will see an introduction and brief instructions for their 
completion.  If you have questions about the Certification Program. Please use this link to support resources and 
individual support as needed.  
 
You may wonder why professional development content is included as part of a Stats II course, and that’s a logical 
question.  The Dean of the Muma College of Business has directed that Program content be incorporated into 
required curriculum and QMB 3200 i s generally taken in the third year.  We believe you will find that the Program 
content and activities will be beneficial to your professional and career development and encourage you to 
engage deeply with the content in Canvas, and the Bellini Program.  
 
https://www.usf.edu/business/talent -development/certification -program.aspx  
 
Level 3: Networking & Internship - Grow your network and gain relevant experience.  
Career Coaching Support  
The Bellini Center provides career coaching services to all undergraduate Muma College of Business students.   
 
Coaching reinforces the skills and concepts introduced in the program with individualized support.   
 
Students in Levels 3 and 4 are required to meet with a Bellini Career Coach to achieve level completion.   
Schedule an appointment with a coach here.  
Student Incentives :  
 
8  
Students who engage with the Bellini Center, career events and certification program will earn points through 
Bellini Net - powered by Suitable. In the app, students can track points earned and incentive offerings through the 
leaderboard.   
 
How to Earn Extra Credit:  
 
Complete Bellini Certification Level 3: Networking & Internship this semester and inform the professor of your 
Level 3 badge to earn 3% Extra Credit Points towards QMB 3200 course final grade.  
   
 
9 XVII. Course Schedule . (* Note: Th is Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed)  
 
In this course, Tuesday will be treated as the class meeting day, and Tuesday -thru -Monday will be treated as a 
week.  
 
Week  Date  Description  
1 8/23 Assignments to be completed before class : 
• Read “Chapter0,WhyStudyStatistics.docx” by Tues day,  8/22 
• Review Textbook Chapter  1 by Tues day,  8/22 
• Read Textbook Appendix E & Appendix F  by Tues day, 8/22 
Topic: Syllabus, Course Outline, and Introduction to Statistics  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand Course Overview, Objectives, Structure, and Grading  Policy  
• Develop a basic overview on the importance of  Statistics.  
• Learn the important role Statistics plays in Business Decision  Making  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #0 (Self Introduction) – due before 11:59 p.m. Thurs day,  
8/24 
• Complete Not -for-Grade -First Week Quiz” by Monday,  8/28 
• Read and Practice in Excel “Chapter01DataAndDescriptiveStatistics.docx” 
& do a quick review of “Chapter02Probability.docx” by Tues day,  9/5 
• Do a Quick Review of Textbook Chapters: 2, 3, and 4 by Tues day,  9/5 
 8/25 Last day to drop course w/o financial responsibility – Friday, 8/25 
2 8/30  Hurricane Idalia – USF Clos ed – No Class  
2 9/6 Topic: Descriptive Statistics and Probability  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand population and sample, parameters, and  statistics.  
• Learn to calculate measures of central tendency and measures  of 
dispersion.  
• Learn to understand variables, statistical experiments, and random 
variables.  
• Learn the basic concepts and importance of  Probability.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #1 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  9/11 
• QUIZ #1 ( Honorlock)  (on Descriptive Statistics) – is due before 11:59 p.m. 
Monday,  9/11  
 
10 Week  Date  Description  
• Read & Practice in Excel discrete probability distributions portion of 
“Chapter03ProbabilityDistributions.docx” by Tues day, 9/12  
• Review Textbook Chapter 5 by Tues day, 9/12 
3 9/13 Topic: Discrete Probability Distributions  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand the concept of a random variable and a probability 
distribution.  
• Learn various discrete probability distributions, learn when to apply a 
particular distribution, and calculate  probabilities.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #2 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  9/18 
• QUIZ #2 ( Honorlock)  (on Discrete Probability Distributions) – is due before 
11:59 p.m. Monday,  9/18 
• Read & Practice in Excel continuous probability distributions portion 
of “Chapter03ProbabilityDistributions.docx” by Tues day, 9/19  
• Review Textbook Chapter 6 by Tues day, 9/19 
4 9/20 Topic: Continuous Probability Distributions  
Learning Objective : 
• Learn various continuous probability distributions, learn when to apply a 
particular distribution, and calculate  probabilities.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #3 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  9/25 
• QUIZ #3 ( Honorlock)  (on Continuous Probability Distributions) – is due 
before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  9/25 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter04ConfidenceIntervals.docx” by 
Tues day,  9/26  
• Review Textbook Chapter 7 and 8 by Tues day, 9/26 
5 9/27  Topic: Estimation (Sampling Distributions, Point Estimation, and Interval 
Estimation)  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand the importance of Central Limit Theorem in Statistical 
Inference  
• Develop point estimates for a population parameter given the  sample 
dataset from various business decision  contexts.  
• Develop interval estimates for a population parameter given the sample 
dataset from various business decision  contexts.  
• Learn to interpret confidence interval  estimates.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #4 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 10/2  
 
11 Week  Date  Description  
• QUIZ #4 ( Honorlock)  (on Estimation) – is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  
10/2 
6 10/4 Scheduled Event : Review & Preparation for Exam #1. No new/additional course 
content will be covered this week.  
Exam #1 ( Honorlock ) – (on Discrete Probability Distributions, Continuous Probability 
Distributions, and Estimation) will open on Saturday , 10/7 and will close at 11:59 
p.m. Monday, 10/9 
Assignment : 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter05HypothesisTesting.docx” by Tues day, 
10/10  
• Review Textbook Chapter 9 by Tues day, 10/10 
7 10/11 
 Topic: Statistical Inference and Hypothesis Testing  
Learning Objective : 
• Understand and appreciate the importance of Hypothesis testing  in 
Business Decision  making.  
• Develop hypothesis from a problem  statement.  
• Learn to choose an appropriate statistical technique to apply given  the 
problem context,  
• Learn to conduct hypothesis tests, and most importantly, interpret the 
reports/results, and develop  conclusions.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #5 – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  10/16 
• QUIZ #5 on Honorlock  (on Hypothesis Testing)  – is due before 11:59 p.m. 
Monday,  10/16 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter07CategoricalVariables.docx” by 
Tues day, 10/17  
• Review Textbook Chapter 12 by Tues day,  10/17 
 10/17 Midterm Grade is posted by 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 10/17 
8 10/18 Topic: Chi-Square Tests of Independence and Goodness of Fit  
Learning Objective : 
• Learn to develop Hypothesis Statements and perform hypotheses  tests 
on categorical data using Chi -Square  tests.  
• Learn to conduct Goodness of Fit tests and interpret  results.  
• Learn to conduct Contingency Table test and interpret  results.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #6 (Ch.12) – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 
10/23 
• QUIZ #6 on Honorlock  (on Chi -Square Testing) – is due before 11:59 p.m. 
Monday,  10/23  
 
12 Week  Date  Description  
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter06ANOVA.docx” by Tues day,  10/24  
• Review Textbook Chapter 13 by Tues day, 10/24 
9 10/25 Topic: Experimental Design and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)  
Learning Objective : 
• Identify an appropriate design to perform Analysis of Variance  (ANOVA)  
given the problem statement and learn to develop hypothesis 
statements.  
• Appreciate the role of and learn to perform the Completely  Randomized 
Design, Randomized Block Design, and Factorial Design based analysis 
using Excel, and conduct Fisher’s Least Significance Difference  test.  
• Understand and interpret ANOVA output; develop conclusions for  the 
decision  maker.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #7 (on ANOVA) – Report is due before 11:59 p.m. Monday, 
10/30  
• QUIZ #7 ( Honorlock)  (on ANOVA) – is Due before: 11:59 p.m.  Monday, 
10/30 
 10/28 Fall Last day to withdraw; no refund & no academic penalty – Saturday, 10/28 
10 11/1 Scheduled Event : Review & Preparation for Exam #2. No new/additional course 
content will be covered this week.  
Exam #2 ( Honorlock ) – (on Hypothesis Testing, Chi -Square Testing, and Analysis of 
Variance) will open on Satur day, 11/4 and will close at 11:59 p.m. Monday, 11/6 
Assignment : 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter08SimpleRegression.docx” by Tues day, 
11/7  
• Review Textbook Chapter 14 by Tues day, 11/7 
11 11/8 Topic: Simple Linear Regression  
Learning Objective : 
• Develop appreciation for the importance of Regression and  Correlation  
• Develop simple linear regression model for given  data.  
• Test hypotheses about relationships between  variables  
• Understand and interpret the regression output from Excel.  
• Extract useful information from regression report for business decision 
making.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #8 (on Simple Linear Regression) – Report is due before 
11:59 p.m. Monday, 11/13  
 
13 Week  Date  Description  
• QUIZ #8 (Honor lock)  (on Simple Linear Regression) – is Due before:  11:59 
p.m. Monday, 11/13 
• Read & Practice in Excel “Chapter09MultipleRegression.docx” by 
Tues day, 11/14  
• Review Textbook Chapter 15 by Tues day,  11/14 
12 11/15  Topic: Chapter 15 – Multiple Regression  
Learning Objective : 
• Develop multiple regression model for given  data.  
• Test hypotheses about relationships between  variables  
• Understand and interpret the regression output from Excel.  
• Extract useful information from regression report for business  decision 
making.  
• Learn how to deal with categorical independent variables in  regression.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #9 (on Multiple Regression) – Report is due before  11:59 p.m. 
Monday, 11/20  
• QUIZ #9 (Honorlock) (on Multiple Regression)  – is Due before: 11:59 p.m. 
Monday, 11/20 
• Review Textbook Chapter 17 by Tues day,  11/21 
13 11/22 Topic: Time Series Analysis and Forecasting  
Learning Objective : 
• Develop an understanding for patterns in Time Series  data.  
• Learn to select an appropriate forecasting technique based on time  series 
pattern.  
• Learn to develop forecasts using techniques like Naïve, Moving Averages, 
Exponential Smoothing, and Regression  methods.  
• Understand the role of Forecast Accuracy Measures, and to select a  best 
method for forecasting for a given  problem.  
Assignment : 
• HOMEWORK #10 (on Time Series Analysis and Forecasting) – Report is 
due before 11:59 p.m. Monday,  11/27 
• QUIZ #10 ( Honorlock)  (on Time Series Analysis and Forecasting) – is 
Due before: 11:59 p.m. Monday,  11/27  
14 11/29 Scheduled Event : Review & Preparation for Exam #3. No new/additional course 
content will be covered this week.  
 
Exam #3 ( Honorlock ) – (on Simple Linear Regression, Multiple Regression, and 
Forecasting) will open on Saturday, 12/2 and will close at 11:59 p.m. Monday, 12/4  
 11/25–12/1 Test Free Week – Final Exam cannot be administered   
 
14 Week  Date  Description  
 12/12 –12/13  Final Grade is reported to USF by 11:59 p.m. Tuesday, 12/12 and will be posted on 
Canvas Grade Book by the end of the day on Wednesday (12/13)  
 12/15 Course Final Grade will be visible in OASIS  
 
* Note s:  
• The Schedule is subject to revision if and as needed during the semester.  
• All the dates and assignments are tentative and can be changed at the discretion of the professor.  
 
   
 
15 XVIII.  USF Core  Syllabus  Policies  
USF has a set of central policies related to  student recording class sessions,  academic integrity and grievances, 
student accessibility services, academic disruption, religious observances, academic continuity, food insecurity, 
and sexual harassment  that apply to all courses  at USF . Be sure to review these online : usf.edu/provost/faculty -
success/resources -policies -forms/core -syllabus -policy -statements.aspx     
 
XIX. Course Policies: Grades   
 
Online Proctoring: Online exams and quizzes within this course will require online proctoring. Quizzes and 
examinations will be administered using online proctoring tool - Honorlock . Keeping the audio and video 
(microphone and camera) on during such exams and quizzes is a must. Therefore, students will be required to 
have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that this 
remote re cording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private  
residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence. To avoid any concerns in this 
regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library and other academic sites at the 
University offer secure  private settings for recordings, and students with concerns may discuss the location of an 
appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor. Students must ensure that any recordings do 
not invade any third -party privacy rights and acc ept all responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party 
privacy concerns. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. For additional 
information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ at:  
http://www.usf.edu/innovative -education/resources/student -services/online -proctoring.aspx  
    
Late Work Policy : No late work will be allowed in this course be it for HW assignments, Quizzes, or Exams.  
Student acquisition of knowledge in this course happens cumulatively. The nature of the course is such that 
student learning of topics must happen on a weekly basis as scheduled. Otherwise, it will affect learning the 
subsequent weeks. All the due dates f or the tasks in this course are announced on day 1. It is the responsibility of 
students to submit their work well ahead of time and to meet all the d eadlines. If proper, correct, and valid 
submissions do not happen before the respective deadlines; zero points will be recorded for the task. The only 
exception to this policy will be documented medical emergencies (if any) for the student needing medical 
attention with proper medical / hospitalization certificate. As all the dates have been announced at the beginning 
of the semester, being on office trip, or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or being late by a second will 
not qualify for any exc eptions or concessions as far as the assignment submissions go. Assignments not submitted 
on time mean assignment was not turned in and will earn a zero credit.  
 
Extra Credit Policy : There will be No Extra Credit in this course.  There is no need to do any extra work in this 
course. Just do what you have been assigned on -time without -missing the deadlines to become eligible for the 
grade. Every task (HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams) assigned in this course shall count towards y our grade. If 
you fail to meet the deadline, zero points will be assigned for that task. No exceptions. Any exception will be made 
ONLY for medical emergencies / hospitalizations of the student with proper official documentation from the 
doctor/hospital.  
 
Grades of "Incomplete" : Students cannot demand an “I” grade as they wish. If any student is not earning good 
grades, that cannot become a basis for asking for an “I” Grade. In such cases “I” grade cannot be awarded. It can 
be requested only under exceptional circumstances for v alid reasons and a decision will be made based on USF 
policy.  
The current university policy concerning incomplete grades will be followed in this course.  
For undergraduate courses:  An “I” grade may be awarded to a student only when a small portion of the 
student’s work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade . The time limit 
for removing the “I” is to be set by the instructor of the course. For undergraduate students, this time limit 
may not exceed two academic semesters, whether or not the student is in residence, and/or graduation,  
 
16 whichever comes first. For graduate students, this time limit may not exceed one academic semester. “I” 
grades not removed by the end of the time limit will be changed to “IF” or “IU,” whichever is appropriate.  
For graduate courses:  An Incomplete grade ( "I") is exceptional and granted at the instructor’s discretion only 
when students are unable to complete course requirements due to illness or other circumstances beyond 
their control. The course instructor and student must complete and sign the "I" Grade Con tract Form that 
describes the work to be completed, the date it is due, and the grade the student would earn factoring in a 
zero for all incomplete assignments. The due date can be negotiated and extended by student/instructor as 
long as it does not exceed  two semesters for undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses 
from the original date grades were due for that course. An "I" grade not cleared within the two semesters for 
undergraduate courses and one semester for graduate courses (includ ing summer semester) will revert to the 
grade noted on the contract.  
 
Rewrite Policy : There will be no rewrites in this course. All quizzes and exams can be attempted only once. 
Students can submit their HW reports multiple times, but all the submissions must happen only before the set 
deadline (and not after).  
 
Make -up Exams Policy : There will be No Make -up Exams in this course. Exams can be attempted only once. Time 
windows for the Exams are announced on Day 1. It is the student responsibility to adjust their schedules to give 
their exams during the exam time window. No change of d ates will be entertained unless there is absolutely an 
exceptional circumstance at student’s end and for documented medical emergencies and only if student has 
notified the instructor in advance and certainly not after the deadline pass es. As all the dates have been 
announced at the beginning of the semester, being on office trip, or on vacation, or on cruise, or forgetfulness, or 
being late will not qualify for any exceptions or concessions. If Exams are not submitted on time, zero poin ts will 
be recorded.  
 
Exam Retention Policy : Not applicable for this course as all the Exams are Honorlock  -based. Student submission 
happen on Canvas so there will be an electronic record. So, whatever USF policy is for Canvas course retention 
that applies for the course.  
 
Essay Commentary Policy : Not applicable.  
 
Group Work Policy : All the tasks in the course – HW assignments, Quizzes, and Exams are individual tasks. There is 
no group work allowed in this course. If there is any group work in the group work, that would be plagiarism. In 
such instances, action will be taken on stude nts based on USF policy on academic integrity violation.  
 
Final Examinations Policy : All final exams are to be scheduled in accordance with the University’s final 
examination policy.  
 
Campus Free Expression: It is fundamental to the University of South Florida’s mission to support an environment 
where divergent ideas, theories, and philosophies can be openly exchanged and critically evaluated. Consistent 
with these principles, this course may involve discussio n of ideas that you find uncomfortable, disagreeable, or 
even offensive.  
 
In the instructional setting, ideas are intended to be presented in an objective manner and not as an 
endorsement of what you should personally believe. Objective means that the idea(s) presented can be tested 
by critical peer review and rigorous debate, a nd that the idea(s) is supported by credible research.  
 
Not all ideas can be supported by objective methods or criteria. Regardless, you may decide that certain ideas 
are worthy of your personal belief. In this course, however, you may be asked to engage with complex ideas and  
 
17 to demonstrate an understanding of the ideas. Understanding an idea does not mean that you are required to 
believe it or agree with it.  
 
XX. Course Policies: Technology and Media  
 
Email : I am Dr. Ramakrishna Govindu, and I will be your instructor for this course. My e -mail address is: 
RGovindu@usf.edu . If you are e -mailing me, as a courtesy, please commence your email with a greeting such as 
“Dear Dr. Govindu,” “Hello Dr. Govindu,” or “Dr. Govindu.” Please write the appropriate subject and please write 
your name at the bottom of the email.  
 
How to communicate with me  
Given the ongoing pandemic situation, the best way to reach me is through e -mail that will be quicker. Leaving 
voice message on my office phone would not be good during these pandemic times. Response times can be longer 
that way. Sending an e -mail would be  the best given the current situation. Should you need help with the course, 
we can set up time to discuss remotely at mutual convenience. Meanwhile, you can email me with the questions, 
and I may be able to clarify your questions through an e -mail. If at all needed, we can set up an appointment at 
mutual convenience for a tele -conversation and if possible and required a Microsoft Teams meeting.  
 
How NOT to communicate with me  
• Please don’t post questions in the comments section of Canvas homework submissions. I will not read your 
comments until I sit down to grade your assignment.  
• Please don’t email me from a non -USF email account.  
• Please don’t submit deliverables to me through e -mail. It will be treated as a non -submission.  
• Please don’t reply to an email that I send to the entire class without changing the subject unless your question 
is about that subject. If you are using the “Reply” button as a means to get my email address in the “To” line, 
please change the subject line and delete all previous text from that email, if your email pertains to something 
else. In which case it is better to not use the “reply” button and just start a fresh email.  
 
How will I communicate with you?  
I will use the Canvas messaging utility to send you all emails pertaining to the course. So, you must check your USF 
mail account (and/or your e -mail where you receive USF e -mails by default). Whenever a student asks a question 
and I reply directly to that  student. If and where the student question and my reply are very important for the rest 
of the class to know, I will send out a mass e -mail, hiding the student identity. Students over the years found such 
inputs quite beneficial for them.  
 
When students send me e -mails, I get them in my USF e -mail Inbox, and I will reply through my USF e -mail. If I am 
sending e -mails, I will use Canvas messaging feature to send e -mails. You should also do the same. I deal with 
almost hundred students and som etimes even more and I receive hundreds of e -mails. When you send e -mails 
through Canvas, I will instantly know who you are, in which course of mine you are in, I will understand the 
context for the question, and what is it that you are asking and why. Tha t will help me to respond quickly. 
Otherwise, it could take a little longer. I respond very quickly – sometimes within minutes, sometimes within a few 
hours, sometimes within a day or so depending on the nature and importance of communication, circumstance s, 
and the situation at my end. I respond on weekends too. But expect the response times to be little longer if it is 
weekends and if I am travelling. But be assured I will respond, and I will respond to student e -mails very quickly as 
I am able to.  
 
Do not send me e -mails on technological issues at your end. If the issues at your end are technology related you 
must reach out to USF IT Helpdesk, Canvas Helpdesk, and/or Honorlock  Helpdesk depending on the issue, and 
they will help you immediately. I won’t be able to resolve your technology issues.  
  
 
18 Canvas : Describe how you will use Canvas in the course, how often students should expect to login, how team 
activities will be organized, due dates, policies on late participation, etc.  
Example: This course will be offered via USF's learning management system (LMS), Canvas. If you need help 
learning how to perform various tasks related to this course or other courses being offered in Canvas, please 
view Canvas videos, or consult the Canvas help guides. If new to Canvas, read this guide . You may also contact 
USF's IT department at (813) 974 -1222 or help@usf.edu . 
 
Honorlock: In this course, we use Canvas - Honorlock  for all Quizzes and Exams. Students are therefore required to 
have a webcam with a microphone (either USB or mounted into your computer).   
All students must review the syllabus and the requirements, including the online terms and video testing 
requirements, to determine if they wish to remain in the course. Enrollment in the course is an agreement to abide 
by and accept all terms. Any student  may elect to drop or withdraw from this course before the end of the 
drop/add period.  
Online exams and quizzes within this course may require online proctoring. Therefore, students will be required 
to have a webcam (USB or internal) with a microphone when taking an exam or quiz. Students understand that 
this remote recording device is purchased and controlled by the student and that recordings from any private 
residence must be done with the permission of any person residing in the residence . 
To avoid any concerns in this regard, students should select private spaces for the testing. The University library 
and other academic sites at the University offer secure private settings for recordings and students with concerns 
may discuss location of a n appropriate space for the recordings with their instructor or advisor.  
Students must ensure that any recordings do not invade any third -party privacy rights and accept all 
responsibility and liability for violations of any third -party privacy concerns.  
Students are strictly responsible for ensuring that they take all exams using a reliable computer and high -speed 
internet connection. Setup information will be provided prior to taking the proctored exam. To use Honorlock 
students are required to download and install the Honorlock Google Chrome extension  (Links to an external 
site.) ." For additional information please visit the USF online proctoring student FAQ  (Links to an external site.)  
and Honorlock student resources  (Links to an external site.) .  
Students need to have access to a computer with the Chrome browser and can download the Honorlock 
extension. Your system also needs webcam, and you need to present your ID (any Photo ID would be enough 
you can simply use your USF ID) for verification to ge t into Honorlock Quizzes and Exams.  
 
Specific information / instructions will be provided on all Honorlock Quizzes and Honorlock Exams. For 
additional information about online proctoring, you can visit the online proctoring student FAQ.  
 
WhatsApp, GroupMe, and Student -to-Student Communication : While students may use digital communication 
tools (WhatsApp, GroupMe, etc.) to communicate with fellow students, it is important to remember that 
academic integrity policies still apply in these environments. Informing others about the contents of tests  is 
prohibited by the official regulation , as is receiving unauthorized information about an examination. Students are 
expected and required to immediately report instances of such violations to the instructor.  
 
Laptop Usage:  You would need a proper laptop with microphone and webcam (either built in or external) for use 
in this course. Describe your policies for using laptops throughout your course. Whether you dislike the use of 
laptops during your lecture, or whether you enc ourage using a laptop during discussion, or wish for all students 
using laptops to sit in a particular region of the classroom, feel free to state it here.  
  
 
19 Classroom Devices/Student Recording:  Not applicable. Describe your policies for using calculators, tape 
recorders, and other student -owned audio & technology devices for your course.  
 
Phone Usage: Describe your policies for student phone use in class, including texting or surfing the Internet. If you 
are using social media for a “backchannel” conversation, mention it here. If you would prefer that students not 
take photos/video/audio recordings of y ou, or of the whiteboard notes at the end of the class, state so here.   
 
XXI. Course Policies: Student Expectations  
 
Attendance Policy:  In a 100% online, Course Participation serves as attendance Policy. Please refer to section XII 
for the details on Course Participation.  
Example: Students are expected to attend classes. Faculty must inform students of attendance requirements 
on syllabi. Instructors should accommodate excused absences by making arrangements with students ahead 
of time (when possible) or by providing a reaso nable amount of time to make up missed work.  
 
Course Hero / Chegg Policy:  
The USF Policy on Academic Integrity  specifies that students may not use websites that enable cheating, such 
as by uploading or downloading material for this purpose. This does apply specifically to Chegg.com and 
CourseHero.com – any use of these websites (including uploading proprietary mat erials) constitutes a 
violation of the academic integrity policy.  
 
Professionalism Policy:  Complete your work and submit reports on time every time well before the respective 
deadlines on assignments.  
Per university policy and classroom etiquette, mobile phones, iPods, etc. must be silenced  during all 
classroom and lab lectures. Those not heeding this rule will be asked to leave the classroom/lab immediately 
so as to not disrupt the learning environment. Please arrive on time for all class meetings. Students who 
habitually disturb the class by talking, arriving late, etc., and have been warned may suffer a reduction in their 
final class grade.  
 
End of Semester Student Evaluations:   
All classes at USF make use of an online system for students to provide feedback to the University regarding 
the course. These surveys will be made available at the end of the semester, and the University will notify you 
by email when the response window o pens. Your participation is highly encouraged and valued.  
 
Food and Drink Policy:  Not Applicable.  
Example: Please adhere to the firm policy of no beverages (other than bottled/capped water), food, tobacco 
products, or like items in the classroom. Your understanding of the necessity for this policy and cooperation 
will be greatly appreciated. This polic y will be strictly enforced.  
 
Turnitin.com:  In this course Turnitin service will be utilized for all the assignments to prevent plagiarism. The 
University of South Florida has an account with an automated plagiarism detection service which allows 
student assignments to be checked for plagiarism. Turnitin is an automated system which instructors may use 
to quickly and easily compare each student's assignment with billions of web sites, as well as an enormous 
database of student papers that grows with each submission. Accordingly, you wil l be expected to submit all 
assignments in both hard copy and electronic format. After the assignment is processed, as instructor I receive 
a report from turnitin.com that states if and how another author’s work was used in the assignment. For a 
more detai led look at this process visit http://www.turnitin.com .  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students are requested to 
maintain confidentiality as a way to keep their personal contact information (i.e., name, address, telephone)  
 
20 from being disclosed to vendors or other outside agencies. By your submission, you are also agreeing to 
release your original work for review for academic purposes to Turnitin. 
 
In order to comply with privacy laws, students are not required to include personal identifying 
information, such as name, in the body of the document. While submitting to Turnitin, PLEASE 
REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE BODY OF YOUR PAPER AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID#. 
ALSO REMOVE YOUR NAME FROM THE FILE NAME AND REPLACE IT WITH YOUR USF ID# (e.g., 
“U12345678 Essay 1.docx”) before submitting.  
 
Plagiarism:  
Definition of plagiarism  in USF Regulation 3.027.   
Plagiarism is intentionally or carelessly presenting the work of another as one’s own. It 
includes submitting an assignment purporting to be the student’s original work which has 
wholly or in part been created by another person. It also includes the presentation of t he work, 
ideas, representations, or words of another person without customary and proper 
acknowledgement of sources. Students must consult with their instructors for clarification in 
any situation in which the need for documentation is an issue and will have plagiarized in any 
situation in which their work is not properly documented.  
a) Every direct quotation must be identified by quotation marks or appropriate indentation and 
must be properly acknowledged by parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or 
endnote.  
b) When material from another source is paraphrased or summarized in whole or in part in 
one’s own words, that source must be acknowledged in a footnote or endnote, or by 
parenthetical citation in the text.  
c) Information gained in reading or research that is not common professional knowledge must 
be acknowledged in a parenthetical citation in the text or in a footnote or endnote.  
d) This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the use of papers, reports, projects, and other 
such materials prepared by someone else.  
 
Netiquette Guidelines  
1. Act professionally in the way you communicate. Treat your instructors and peers with respect, 
the same way you would do in a face -to-face environment. Respect other people’s ideas and 
be constructive when explaining your views about points you may not agre e with.  
2. Be sensitive. Be respectful and sensitive when sharing your ideas and opinions. There will be 
people in your class with different linguistic backgrounds, political and religious beliefs, or 
other general differences.  
3. Proofread and check spelling. Doing this before sending an email or posting a thread on a 
discussion board will allow you to make sure your message is clear and thoughtful. Avoid the 
use of all capital letters, it can be perceived as if you are shouting , and it is more difficult to 
read.  
4. Keep your communications focused and stay on topic. Complete your ideas before changing 
the subject. By keeping the message on focus you allow the readers to easily get your idea or 
answers they are looking for.  
5. Be clear with your message. Avoid using humor or sarcasm. Since people can’t see your 
expressions or hear your tone of voice, meaning can be misinterpreted.  
  
 
21 XXII. Learning Support and Campus Offices  
 
Academic Accommodations  
Students with disabilities are responsible for registering with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) in 
order to receive academic accommodations. For additional information about academic 
accommodations and resources, you can visit the SAS website.  
SAS website for the Tampa and Sarasota -Manatee campuses.  
SAS website for the St. Pete campus.  
 
Academic Support Services  
The USF Office of Student Success coordinates and promotes university -wide efforts to enhance 
undergraduate and graduate student success.  For a comprehensive list of academic support 
services available to all USF students, please visit the Office of Student Success website . 
 
Canvas Technical Support  
Include information where students can find technical support.  
If you have technical difficulties in Canvas, you can find access to the Canvas guides and video 
resources in the “Canvas Help” page on the homepage of your Canvas course. You can also contact 
the help desk by calling 813 -974-1222 in Tampa or emailing help@usf.edu.  
IT website for the Tampa campus.  
IT website for the St. Pete campus.  
IT website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Center for Victim Advocacy  
The Center for Victim Advocacy  empowers survivors of crime, violence, or abuse  
by promoting the restoration of decision making, by advocating for their rights, and by  
offering support and resources. Contact information is available online.  
 
Counseling Center  
The Counseling Center promotes the wellbeing of the campus community by  
providing culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training that  
enhances student academic and personal success. Contact information is available online.  
Counseling Center website for the Tampa campus.  
Counseling Center website for the St. Pete campus.  
Counseling Center website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Tutoring  
The Tutoring Hub offers free tutoring in several subjects to USF undergraduates.  
Appointments are recommended, but not required. For more information, email  
asctampa@usf.edu .  
Tutoring website for the Tampa campus.  
Tutoring website for the St. Pete campus.  
Tutoring website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
Writing Studio  
Example : The Writing Studio is a free resource for USF undergraduate and graduate  
students. At the Writing Studio, a trained writing consultant will work individually with  
you, at any point in the writing process from brainstorming to editing. Appointments are   
 
22 recommended, but not required. For more information or to make an appointment, email: 
writingstudio@usf.edu .  
Writing studio website for the Tampa campus.  
Writing studio website for the St. Pete campus.  
Writing studio website for the Sarasota -Manatee campus.  
 
XXIII.  Important Dates to Remember  
 
For important USF dates, see the Academic Calendar  at http://www.usf.edu/registrar/calendars/   
 
Example:  
Drop/Add Deadline:    Fri, Aug 25, 202 3 
Mid-term Grading Closes:    Tues, Oct 17, 202 3 
Withdrawal Deadline:    Sat, Oct 28, 202 3 
Test Free Week:    Sat, Apr 22  - Fri, Apr 28 , 202 3 
Final Examination Week:    Sat, Dec 2 - Thurs, Dec 7, 202 3 
 