
Overview
Furthering the mission that the University of South Florida's Muma College of Business
               be fully engaged with the surrounding business community and corporate world are the
               Conversation with a CEO events. Twice, sometimes three times a semester, top executives
               who practice innovation and implement forward-thinking policies at their companies
               come by to chat with our dean in front of a room filled with alumni, faculty, students
               and business leaders.
Past conversations have included Steve Griggs, CEO of the Tampa Bay Lightning and
               Amelie Arena; Bob Dutkowsky, former CEO of Tech Data; Shelley Broader, CEO of Chico's
               FAS; and Mark Mondello CEO of Jabil. The setup is casual and involves the dean and
               the guest talking informally about careers, work environments and what it takes to
               be successful in a fast-paced, ever-changing corporate landscape.
The program has proven to be a huge success, often with nearly 200 attending the morning
               sessions, taking time from their busy work schedules to listen in on the conversation
               and ask questions of executives they otherwise may never get a chance to meet.
The Conversation with a CEO events are free and reservations are required on a first-come,
                     first-served basis. For more information, contact Lauren Castellanos by emailing castellanos4@usf.edu.
Past Conversations


Trevor Baldwin

Baldwin Risk Partners CEO Trevor Baldwin talks insurance as a force for 'social good'
                           at Conversation with a CEO




Randy Hassen

McKibbon Hospitality CEO Randy Hassen talks humble beginnings and hospitality trends
                           at Conversation with a CEO




Helen Wesley

TECO Peoples Gas president Helen Wesley talks renewable energy and corporate skills
                           at Conversation with a CEO event




Lauren Weiner

Lauren G. Weiner, co-founder of WWC Global, to be the next guest at the Conversation
                           with a CEO series
WWC Global Co-founder Lauren Weiner shares corporate lessons at Conversation with
                           a CEO event




Patrick Hwu

Patrick Hwu, president and CEO of Moffitt Cancer Center, to be the Next Guest at the
                           Conversation with a CEO
Moffitt CEO Predicts Cure for Cancer Within 50 Years




Adelee Le Grand

HART CEO Adelee Le Grand to be the Guest at the Next Conversation with a CEO




Mike Sutton

Conversation with a CEO Guest Mike Sutton Leads Habitat to National Recognition




Richard Kopelman

Richard Kopelman, CEO of Aprio, Talks Pandemic, Diversity, Analytics at Conversation
                           with a CEO




Melissa Seixas

Melissa Seixas, Head of Duke Energy in Florida, Discusses the Glass Ceiling, Diversity
                           at Conversation with a CEO
Conversation with a CEO: Melissa Seixas




Brian Butler

Brian Butler, Head of Vistra Communications, Is the Next Conversation with a CEO Guest




Rogan Donelly

Rogan Donelly, President of Tervis, featured in Conversation with a CEO




David Deno

Bloomin' Brands Chief David Deno Scheduled to be the Conversation with a CEO Guest
                           in March




Pam Iorio

Former Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio Featured at the February Conversation with a CEO




Rich Hume

Tech Data's Rich Hume to be the Guest at the October Conversation with a CEO




Steve Presley

Steve Presley, Head of Nestlé USA and USF alumnus.




Nancy Tower

TECO Chief Nancy Tower.




Paul Reilly

Paul Reilly, CEO of Raymond James Financial.




Don Fox

From Pot Scrubber to CEO of Firehouse Subs, Don Fox.




Vincent Jackson

Fall Conversation with a CEO Guest: Vincent Jackson, Pro Football Player/Entrepreneur




Dave Dunkel

Conversation with A CEO: Dave Dunkel, Chairman and CEO of Kforce




Steve Griggs

Tampa Bay Lightning CEO Steve Griggs.




Shelley Broader

Chico's Shelley Broader.




Arnie Bellini

Arnie Bellini, ConnectWise CEO and Endurance Swimmer.




Troy Taylor

Troy Taylor, CEO of Coca-Cola Florida.




Dennis Adamovich

Dennis Adamovich, CEO of the College Football Hall of Fame.




Bob Dutkowsky

Bob Dutkowsky - Conversations with a CEO




Kenneth Feld

Conversation with a CEO: Kenneth Feld




Mark Mondello

Jabil CEO conversation kicks off new event series



