
Student Organizations



Funding Request for Student Orgs

Student Life at the St. Petersburg campus
Benefits (from CollegiateParent)

Higher GPA
Graduate on time
Social & Professional Network
Hone workplace skills
Leadership experience
Time management (no procrastination)




Accounting SocietyAccounting Society serves as source of involvement and information for students interested
                  in pursuing a degree in accounting. All interested students, regardless of academic
                  class status, are welcome to attend meetings and events to benefit from the professional
                  development and networking opportunities provided.
                  
                  
BullsConnect
Website
Facebook


ALPFAALPFA's mission is to promote professional development, build relationships, and community
                  service. ALPFA has valuable tools to help students network, earn internships, and
                  learn the skills to become a successful business leader, regardless of ethnicity or
                  major.
                  
                  
Website


Alpha Kappa PsiWith membership open to all majors. Alpha Kappa Psi is among the largest business
                  student organizations on campus. Known for developing principled business leaders,
                  Alpha Kappa Psi is the world's oldest business fraternity. Its core values include
                  brotherhood, knowledge, integrity, service and unity.

Facebook


American Marketing AssociationThe American Marketing Association is North America's largest marketing association.
                  A professional association for individuals and organizations involved in the practice,
                  teaching and study of marketing, AMA activities include service-learning projects
                  and social programs. USF's chapter was ranked a top 15 chapter at the AMA's International
                  Collegiate Conference.
                  
                  
Website


Association for Information SystemsAIS at USF is an organization that connects students with professionals in the BAIS
                  field through speaker presentations, events and networking opportunities. AIS members
                  are exposed to educational and practical advancements in technology, as well as job/internship
                  opportunities and workshops.

BullsConnect


Association of Future Professionals in Business ManagementAFPBM is a new and growing organization that is open to all majors. It provides useful
                  information to students that are interested in pursuing management positions or learning
                  about the importance of management skills in the workplace. The organization hosts
                  professional speakers, provides social events, and serves as a networking community
                  of skillful professionals.
                  
                  
Facebook


Beta Alpha Psi - St. Petersburg ChapterBeta Alpha Psi is a nonprofit international honorary and service organization for
                  accounting, finance, and information systems students at AACSB- or EQUIS-accredited
                  universities. Beta Alpha Psi provides opportunities for development of technical and
                  professional skills to complement university education; participation in community
                  service; and interaction among students, faculty, and professionals.
                  
                  
BullsConnect
Website


Beta Alpha Psi - Tampa ChapterBeta Alpha Psi, an international honors organization for financial information students and professionals, affords an invaluable networking experience
                     with professionals. Open to top-performing upper level students, the USF chapter has
                     earned the "superior chapter" designation for 42 consecutive years, the longest consecutive
                     number of years in the nation. It is also one of only two chapters in the world to
                     receive the Gold Chapter designation since the award's inception in 2009.

Website


Beta Gamma SigmaBeta Gamma Sigma is the international honor society serving business programs accredited
                  by AACSB International - The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
                  Membership in Beta Gamma Sigma is the highest recognition a business student anywhere
                  in the world can receive in a business program accredited by AACSB International. 
                  Invitations for membership are extended once a semester.

Website


Business Development ClubThe Business Development Club cultivates the next generation of customer-facing go-to-market
                  leaders from all majors at the University of South Florida. The club connects students
                  with businesses to enable recruiting and skills development. Business partners join
                  weekly club meetings held on both the Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses to share experiences
                  and students work together to develop selling skills. Professional Sales Club members
                  also work with the Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation to host four sales competitions
                  each year, travel to multiple intercollegiate sales competitions, and apply their
                  developing skills to support charitable organizations.

BullsConnect


Council of Supply Chain Management ProfessionalsThe University of South Florida Council for Supply Chain Management Professionals
                  is dedicated to educating students from all academic backgrounds about the supply
                  chain management profession. This organization is the only CSCMP student roundtable
                  in the state of Florida which gives students a unique experience to further their
                  supply chain knowledge. The organization host networking events to expose our brightest
                  minds to current supply chain leaders and promote the transfer of ideas and experience
                  between current and future supply chain professionals.
                  
                  
Website


Delta Sigma PiDelta Sigma Pi is a professional fraternity organized to foster the study of business,
                  to encourage scholarship, social activity and the association of students for their
                  mutual advancement by research and practice. Delta Sig promotes closer affiliations
                  between the corporate world and business students and seeks to serve the community.
                  
                  
Rho Psi Chapter (St. Petersburg)
                        
                        
BullsConnect


Theta Phi Chapter (Tampa)
                        
                        
Website




Ethics and Debate TeamThe Ethics and Debate Team meets regularly to talk about ethical challenges within
                  current events and culture. At weekly club meetings, the conversations are structured
                  but casual. At Team meetings, the group prepares to compete in different competitions
                  such as the Ethics Bowl, the International Business Ethics Case Competition, and state-wide
                  debate tournaments.
                  
                  
BullsConnect
Website


FBLA-PBL (Future Business Leaders of America-Phi Beta Lambda)Open to all majors, FBLA-PBL is an organization fostering the development of competent,
                  aggressive business leadership while creating more interest and understanding of American
                  business enterprise. It's goal is to strengthen the confidence of students in themselves
                  and their work.
                  
                  
Facebook


Gamma Iota SigmaUSF's Gamma Iota Sigma chapter is an international fraternity dedicated to promoting
                  and sustaining student interest in careers in insurance, risk management, and actuarial
                  science through teamwork, integrity, excellence, diversity, and service.

BullsConnect


Graduate Business AssociationThe GBA is an organization of graduate students in the USF Muma College of Business.
                  We strive to enhance the educational experience of all graduate business students
                  by providing networking events, career enhancement and social opportunities.
                  
                  
Facebook


Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals - USF ChapterHospitality Financial and Technology Professionals, established in 1952, is an international,
                  nonprofit association, headquartered in Austin, Texas USA, with offices in Hong Kong,
                  United Kingdom, The Netherlands, and Dubai. HFTP is recognized as the spokes group
                  for the finance and technology segments of the hospitality industry with members and
                  stakeholders spanning across the globe. HFTP uniquely understands the industry's pressing
                  issues and assists its stakeholders in finding solutions to their challenges more
                  efficiently than any organization. It does this via its expert networks, research,
                  certification programs, information resources, and conferences/events such as HITEC.
                  HFTP also owns the world's only hospitality-specific search engine, PineappleSearch.com®. 

BullsConnect
Contact Information: Cihan Cobanoglu


Hospitality SocietyThe Hospitality Society aims to be a collective group of individuals driven to increase
                  their knowledge and experience within their fields of interest. The society will host
                  events promoting cohesion amongst other groups on campus as well as hands-on experience
                  within the hospitality field. It will provide members with opportunities to learn
                  about international and local hospitality practices ranging from food and beverages
                  to guest services.
                  
                  
BullsConnect




Investment ClubThe Investment Club at the St. Petersburg campus focuses on investments education
                  and industry networking for all USF students and communities. Students in this club
                  are invited to join the Student Managed Investment Fund managed by the Merrill Lynch
                  Wealth Management Center in Lynn Pippenger Hall. The club holds events and seminars
                  to facilitate students’ hands-on learning experience in the investment industry. The
                  club also guides students on the CFA path.
                  
                  
Website


National Association of Black AccountantsNABA is dedicated to expanding the influence of minority professionals in the fields
                  of accounting and finance. NABA aims to develop members' professional skills, encourage
                  and assist minority students in entering the accounting profession, provide opportunities
                  for civic responsibility, and represent the interests of current and prospective minority
                  accounting professionals.

Facebook


Net Impact at the University of South FloridaThis organization's mission is to inspire, educate, and equip individuals to use the
                  power of business to create a more socially and environmentally sustainable world.
                  
                  
Facebook


Phi Chi ThetaPhi Chi Theta is a co-ed, professional business fraternity with the goal of creating
                  the business leaders of the future. Phi Chi Theta emphasizes wellness as it relates
                  to professional development, interdisciplinary knowledge, philanthropy, and a strong
                  brotherhood.
                  
                  
LinkedIn
Instagram


Real Estate Society at USFThe Real Estate Society at USF is a student organization in the Muma College of Business
                  that is open to all students at USF. Our mission is to promote the commercial real
                  estate industry as an exciting and often-overlooked career option for business students. The
                  club hosts monthly meetings along with many social events and corporate tours to help
                  students find both internships and scholarships. Interested students are welcome to
                  attend meetings and events to benefit from the amazing networking opportunities that
                  this organization provides. There are no dues required.
                  
                  
Website


Student Finance AssociationThe Student Finance Association strives for academic, professional and business success
                  for our members while providing insights on careers in finance. Finance and investment
                  professionals speak at the SFA's biweekly meetings on topics such as the investment
                  environment and career prospects. Members attend dinners and events hosted by Tampa's
                  Chartered Financial Analyst Society.
                  
                  
Twitter


Investment ClubThe USF Student Investment Club is the largest student-run finance organization in
                  the Southeast with 1,820+ general members. It is run by students, for students interested
                  in careers in finance. In addition to opportunities to conduct equity research and
                  investment management, it offers students unrivaled networking and mentorship opportunities,
                  a history of successful alumni placement in the firms that shape the global financial
                  markets through recruiting events, and a speaker series with professionals.
                  
                  
Contact president Gabriel Mocelin Oliveira


Toastmasters InternationalConfidence. The ability to communicate, persuade and lead. The skill to tell one's
                  story, shape better tomorrows and point others in the same direction. These are the
                  attributes of leaders, and not all leaders are born with talent. For nearly a century,
                  Toastmasters International has been helping women and men of every background, education
                  level and economic standing develop the competency they need to become effective communicators
                  and inspired leaders.

Facebook


Women in Business Society
The USF Women in Business Society aims to bridge the gap between the academic and
                  business worlds in order to prepare our members for success in future leadership roles.
                  Through speaking engagements and social events, our members have the opportunity to
                  enhance their business skills, build their professional network, and expand their
                  portfolios.
                  
                  
BullsConnect
Facebook



