
Visit USF


                  				Visit Tampa Campus
                  			
Find out first-hand what it's like to be a USF Bull. Visit our top-rated academic
                  facilities, residence halls, dining facilities, student center, recreation center,
                  athletic facilities and more. Can’t make it to our beautiful Tampa, Florida, campus
                  yet? Explore USF from wherever you are with our interactive virtual tour!


                        					Schedule a Campus Tour
                        				 

                        					Virtual Campus Tour
                        				 

                        					Visitor Parking Permits
                        				 

                        					Visitor Parking Maps
                        				 

                        					Campus Maps
                        				 




                  				Tampa Campus Information & Transportation
                  			
Get directions to our Campus Information Center where you can obtain information on
                  visitor daily permits, campus tour permits, courtesy and special events permits, and
                  get answers to general parking inquiries. Need help getting around campus? Our USF
                  Bull Runner shuttle service is free for all USF students, faculty and staff with a
                  valid USF ID Card. View live maps and arrival times.


                        					Tampa Campus Information Center
                        				 

                        					Tampa Campus Shuttle Information
                        				 




                  				St. Petersburg & Sarasota-Manatee Campuses
                  			
Learn more about visiting USF's campuses in St. Petersburg and Sarasota-Manatee.


                        					Visit St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Visit Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 

                        					Tour St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Tour Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 




                  				About the Region
                  			
Enjoy the outdoors year-round in Tampa, the only major metropolis on Florida's west
                  coast. The region offers plenty of sunshine, arts and entertainment, shopping and
                  dining, and an annual average temperature of 72 degrees. And with two additional campuses
                  in vibrant cities just an hour each from Tampa, USF has unbeatable regional appeal.


                        					About Tampa Bay
                        				 

                        					About St. Petersburg
                        				 

                        					About Sarasota-Manatee
                        				 


