
Overview
The Center for Marketing and Sales Innovation supports student engagement, training,
                  and research to assist students, businesses, and the community meet the challenges
                  of today, tomorrow, and the future.




News & Events

Debate watch: USF researchers use sensors to measure body's response to debates
Are Political Opinions Based on Emotion or Reason? USF Students Test Theory During
                        Democratic Debate
USF Using Science to Master Marketing
Biometric research on menu design challenges three decades of thinking



Alumni Spotlight
Alec MorozovichAlec secured a job as a full-time Regionial Account Manager at KnowBe4 about six months
                  before he graduated from USF. 
                  
                  
read more

He was recruited directly from the sales club. He got introduced to business partners
                              through sales events and eventually landed the job with KnowBe4. Despite having no
                              prior experience, the company combined with the sales club provided him with the necessary
                              tools to start his career. As a result, Alec became the top representative out of
                              150. One year ago, he was promoted to Regional Sales Director. In Alec's new role,
                              he oversees 10 account executives who are responsible for full-cycle sales. He actively
                              coaches, mentors, and leads his team to achieve their revenue goals, as well as assists
                              in closing deals and negotiating complex contracts. At KnowBe4, Alec wears multiple
                              hats to ensure the success of the team.





New Business Partner
FinTitan is dedicated to helping business owners build, grow, and scale their ventures.
                  The company is evolving into a mission-based organization that will offer a range
                  of financial services for entrepreneurs that are often ignored by traditional financial
                  institutions.



 

 


