
Tampa Campus Tours



Student-Led Campus Tours

Tours are available Monday through Friday and are open to all students. You’ll get an up-close view of our top-rated academic facilities, dining options,
                     a suite-style residence hall, student support offices, recreation and other points
                     of pride. In addition, you will hear from current USF students about what life is
                     really like at our dynamic university!  
Before scheduling a visit, please keep the following in mind:

Dates: Tour space is limited to provide our guests with a positive experience. Please have
                        a few dates in mind before making your reservation in case your first choice is not
                        available.
Academic calendar: To get the best feel for USF, check our academic calendar and visit when there are
                        students on our Tampa campus attending classes.
International students: Contact international@usf.edu to add a meeting with an International Admissions Advisor to your campus tour. 
Weather: The Tampa campus is located in a subtroApical climate and tours are held outdoors.
                        Wear comfortable shoes, sunscreen, hats, sunglasses and temperature-appropriate clothing.
                        And don't forget to bring a water bottle to stay hydrated! It can get hot in Tampa,
                        especially on a walking tour of campus.

Register Now



Self-Guided Campus Tours

You can navigate through campus with our Points of Interest Visitor Map! Download
                     the map below and get started. 
Points of Interest Map
Note: access to all buildings is not guaranteed, and guests must  will need to purchase a parking permit from USF parking services.



Group Tours (10+ Students)

Come join us for a group visit of the University of South Florida’s Tampa campus.
                     These visits are comprised of groups of 10+ high school or transfer-level students.
                     If your group is comprised of other types of students, we invite you to join us for
                     a self-guided tour. Find our Points of Interest map linked above. During your group tour, you’ll explore our academic facilities, a suite-style residence
                     hall, dining options, student support offices, recreation and other important campus
                     stops. Tours include an information session where you and your group will learn about
                     admissions requirements, financial aid, scholarships, campus life, dining and more.
Scheduling Your Group Tour
Due to the large volume of requests we receive for group tours, our guided tours are
                     limited to high school and transfer-level students. We offer guided group tours on
                     weekdays and dates and times are subject to availability. If your group is comprised of high school or prospective transfer students, please
                     follow the directions below to set up your visit:

Submit your request at least 30 days prior to the requested visit date.
Please include your requested date(s) and time(s) in order of preference in the “Date
                        Preferences” field.
After receiving your request, a representative from our office will contact you. Submitting
                        a request does not guarantee a scheduled visit.
Should you wish to eat on campus with your group, we recommend our all-you-care-to-eat
                        dining hall. For information on hours and pricing, please visit Dining Services.

Submit Request



Virtual Tours

Explore USF’s Tampa campus online – from anywhere! Led by student guides, our virtual
                     tour offers 36b0-degree panoramic views of our beautiful 1900-acre campus as real
                     USF students tell you about their favorite stops. Picture yourself in our state-of-the-art classrooms. Discover our modern residence
                     halls. Imagine yourself lying under the Florida sun at Castor Beach – in February!
Start Tour



Disability Accommodations

Disability accommodations can be requested when you register for a campus visit or
                     by contacting the tour staff at 813-974-7878 (Florida Relay Service TTY: 800-955-8771)
                     or visitation@usf.edu at least two weeks in advance for mobility assistance, visual impairment assistance
                     or American Sign Language interpreting.  USF is an Equal Opportunity/Equal Access Institution and therefore complies fully
                     with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and all
                     other federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination on the basis
                     of disability or handicap.



Directions to Campus

 Address:University of South Florida4202 E. Fowler AvenueTampa, FL 33620, USA From the East:

Take I-4 West to Exit 9 / I-75 North
Travel North on I-75 for 3.8 miles to Exit 265 / Fowler Avenue
Head West on Fowler Avenue 4.4 miles to the University's main entrance at Leroy Collins
                        Boulevard

From the West/Tampa International Airport:

Take I-275 North to Exit 45B / I-4 East
Travel East on I-4 for 8.1 miles to Exit 9 / I-75 North
Travel North on I-75 for 3.8 miles to Exit 265 / Fowler Avenue
Head West on Fowler Avenue 4.4 miles to the University's main entrance at Leroy Collins
                        Boulevard




Parking on Campus

Just past the entrance to USF on Leroy Collins Boulevard, turn right into the Campus Information Center (CIC). Pull up to an available drive-through window and inform the staff that you are here
                     for a campus visit with the Office of Admissions. They will provide you with a parking
                     pass and campus map. If you are visiting on a Saturday, the CIC will be closed, and
                     a permit will not be necessary. After obtaining the parking pass, turn right onto Leroy Collins Boulevard and proceed
                     to the Collins Boulevard Parking Garage (located at the end of Leroy Collins Boulevard,
                     just past the Library). Your parking pass allows you to park on level 3 and above.
                     Before exiting your vehicle, be sure your parking pass is visible. From the garage, it's just a short walk to the Interdisciplinary Sciences Building
                     (ISA). Check-in begins one hour prior to the visit on the 7th floor. Note: Please arrive at least 15-30 minutes prior to your scheduled visit to ensure
                        adequate time for parking and check-in. 



Hotels and Accommodations

If you're visiting from out of town, there are a number of convenient hotels located
                     near our Tampa campus. This is not a comprehensive list, so visitors are encouraged
                     to search for other hotels near the campus they are visiting. Many of the hotels listed offer a special USF rate. If you choose one of these hotels,
                     state that you are visiting the University of South Florida to access the special
                     rate. Some also offer free shuttle service to the campus.
Embassy Suites Tampa3705 Spectrum BoulevardTampa, FL(813) 977-7066 Fairfield Inn & Suites Tampa North12260 Morris Bridge RoadTemple Terrace, FL(813) 989-0007 Holiday Inn Express 13294 Telecom DriveTampa, FL(813) 972-9800   
Holiday Inn Express & Suites Tampa - USF Busch Gardens2807 E. Busch BoulevardTampa, FL(813) 936-8200 Holiday Inn Tampa North3751 E Fowler AvenueTampa, FL(813) 402-2982 Home2 Suites by Hilton Tampa USF11606 McKinley DriveTampa, FL(813) 750-8844 Hyatt Place Tampa/Busch Gardens11408 North 30th StreetTampa, FL(813) 979-1922 La Quinta Inn & Suites USF3701 East Fowler AvenueTampa, FL(813) 910-7500 Residence Inn Tampa at USF/Medical Center13420 N. Telecom ParkwayTampa, FL(813) 972-4400  TownePlace Suites Tampa North/I-75 Fletcher6800 Woodstork DriveTampa, FL(813) 975-9777 SpringHill Suites Tampa North I-75/Tampa Palms5396 Primrose Lake CircleTampa, FL (813) 558-0300  



Explore Tampa (and Beyond)

One of the best parts of attending USF is the location. Our sprawling Tampa campus
                     is packed with all the student amenities and resources of a large university, and
                     it’s conveniently located a short drive from downtown, historic Ybor City, theme parks
                     and more. USF offers something for everyone, from beach lovers to sports fans to art
                     aficionados.  Plus, USF students have access to the rich professional resources afforded by the
                     bustling metropolitan area. This includes a strong economy anchored by major companies.
                     Our business community relationships offer students valuable internship and practicum
                     experiences that prepare them for rewarding careers when they graduate. Check out the Visit Tampa Bay website or download our Gulf Coast Visitor Guide to make the most of your trip and
                     explore everything the Tampa Bay area has to offer, from sports to arts to nature. 
Download Guide


