
Why Choose USF?
There’s no doubt – talented students like you have a lot of choices when it comes
               to college. Why should you pick the University of South Florida? We’ll tell you!


Discover USF
Our Campuses
Learn more about our three USF campuses – all under the umbrella of a single Preeminent
               Research University. 
Learn More 
Gulf Coast Living
Explore the sun-drenched, subtropical paradise that the University of South Florida
               calls home. 
Learn More 
Academics
We offer more than 200 majors and concentrations, including accelerated and high ability
               programs, so you can pursue your precise academic passion. You’ll also have access
               to transformative research experiences and exhilarating study abroad opportunities. 
Learn More 
Student Life
Find your passion and an array of services on campus to make you feel right at home
               and be successful.
Learn More 


Other Reasons to Love USF
Affordability
With one of the lowest tuition rates in the country, generous financial aid and scholarships,
               and plenty of student employment opportunities, USF is an outstanding value. Even
               if you live outside Florida, our tuition rates are competitive with many local universities.
Learn more about how we can help you reach your education goals at a price that won’t
               break the bank.

Cost of Attendance
Financial Aid
Scholarships

Explore Financial Aid

USF Athletics
USF’s 18 NCAA Division I teams compete throughout the year, including football, basketball
               and softball. USF student perks include:



Free Bulls Blitz bus transportation to Raymond James Stadium, home to the Tampa Bay
                        Buccaneers, for USF football games
Free admission to every game, including football, for students
Herd Perks Student Rewards app allows students to earn points by “checking in” to USF games throughout the year.
                        The higher the points, the more likely you are to win fan prizes and rewards.
Soon, students can cheer on their fellow Bulls at our very own on-campus stadium.




Explore USF Athletics



Recreation and Activities
From surfing to basketball to eSports, our over 70 intramural and club sport options allow you to find the activity that interests you. Other recreation and fitness
               options also include:

Gyms at all three campuses
Equipment rentals at all three campuses
Adventure Trips for all students
Pools at the Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses
Group fitness at the Tampa and St. Petersburg campuses
Hiking trail at the Tampa campus
USF Challenge Course at the Tampa campus

Explore Recreation

Student Resources
Student success is at the heart of what we do. To ensure the best outcomes possible, USF offers multiple
               academic resources for our students, including academic advising, tutoring and testing services and more.
Explore Student Resources

Career Services


Get ready for graduation starting on day one! USF’s Career Services supports you in
                     the process of dreaming, planning and achieving career goals. They can teach you how
                     to self-assess and conduct career research, seek out experiences that will give you
                     transferable skills, and search for full-time employment. Offerings include:






Career Coaching: Offers career exploration, resume writing and more services to current students to
                  help you discover your career interests and find employment.
Cooperative education: Integrates hands-on, paid, career-related work experience with your academic program
                  and provides you with valuable training in your chosen career field.
Internships: Offers a hands-on opportunity to work in your desired field and are often shorter
                  in duration than a co-op.
Job search: Prepares you for the career search after graduation with a suite of services including
                  resume and cover letter preparation, employer research, networking and interview skills,
                  and tips on proper attire.

Explore Career Services

Military Services
Ranked among the nation's most veteran-friendly schools, USF offers a number of unique
               programs and resources for student veterans. Not only will you benefit by getting
               your degree from a nationally ranked university – you also will find camaraderie among
               our large student veteran population, as well as ongoing support from our Office of Veteran Success.
We offer an out-of-state tuition waiver for any qualified veteran, dependent, or active
               duty personnel who enrolls in the university. Additionally, our Pathways program walks
               students through the admission process and how to use the GI Bill benefit.
USF is also one of the few universities in the nation with ROTC programs for all four
               military departments. There’s even an ROTC living-learning community located in Maple Hall on the Tampa campus.
Explore our ROTC programs offered:

Army ROTC
Naval ROTC
Air Force ROTC
Military ROTC

Study Abroad and Global Perspectives
USF's global focus means we are passionate about helping to solve some of the world's
               most pervasive problems. We celebrate diversity. And we take pride in our university's
               international flavor, created by the culturally diverse students, faculty and research
               partners who converge here from around the globe.
Our international centers, study abroad programs in more than 25 countries, long-standing
               support of the Peace Corps and students from more than 145 countries will enrich your world outlook.
Explore Study Abroad

Interested in Learning More?
Request more information to discover what USF offers and how to join the herd as a
               bull.
Request Information
