
Competitions

Student Business Incubator Competition and Cohort
Unlock your entrepreneurial potential while pursuing your studies at USF with the
               Student Innovation Incubator. Our mission is to transform your business ideas into
               thriving ventures, offering a comprehensive range of resources and support.


HUSTLE Entrepreneurship Program
HUSTLE is a college oriented competition designed to educate students in business
               entrepreneurship through real-world experiences. Helping undergraduate students tackle
               leadership and entrepreneruship as they prepare to enter an extremely competitive
               business world.


USF Saint Petersburg Sustainability Pitch Competition
The USF St Pete Sustainability Pitch competition gives students the chance to pitch
               in front of judges and win over $1,000 in cash prizes. All business ideas are welcome.
               This is a great opportunity for students to showcase their businesses and make a difference.


Daveler Entrepreneurship Program
The Frank and Ellen Daveler Entrepreneurship Program is a competitive, merit-based
               award that will be open to upper-level undergraduate college students across Florida.


USF Video Game Competition
The 2023 USF Video Game Competition is where college students from across Florida
               compete and share their gaming innovations that can enhance the Florida Business Eco-System
               and set new trends in the gaming industry. Students ranging from all levels, from
               undergraduate to doctorate will get to pitch their creations in a Shark Tank-style
               format where judges will evaluate their games based on their commercial viability
               and originality. The top three students will win cash prizes to develop their innovations
               further. 

USF NASA Patenthon
Patenthon is a Nationwide Stem based business competition where the nation's brightest
               college students develop new business models to address a Global/Social problem utilizing
               Nasa Patent Technologies. Patenthon is a collaboration between The USF Nault Center
               for Entrepreneurship, NASA, NACCE, Florida High Tech Corridor, with more partners
               to come. 


Florida Blue Health Innovation Challenge
The annual Florida Blue Health Innovation Challenge is managed by the University of
               South Florida. This theme-based state-wide competition is open to undergraduate, graduate
               and doctoral students from across Florida who have an interest in health-related innovations.


USF Business Plan Competition
The competition provides USF students a chance to receive critical assessments and
               reviews of their new businesses with professional guidance on strategies and tactics
               to successfully fund and grow new ventures.


USF Business Model Competition
The competition provides an opportunity for the USF students to learn about entrepreneurship
               through the development and presentation of a business idea to a panel of judges.
               This standard model for innovation focuses on the basics that help tell if an idea
               is viable or not.
