
Leadership Team
Gert-Jan de Vreede
GJ de Vreede is the interim dean for the Muma College of Business and a professor
               in the School of Information Systems and Management. He has taught undergraduate,
               graduate, doctoral and executive courses in areas such as agile software development,
               systems analysis and design, teamwork/facilitation and research methods. He has been
               recognized by Stanford University as a top 2% researcher worldwide. He has previously
               served as associate dean for research and professional programs, interim dean at the
               university's Sarasota-Manatee campus, and associate chair for his department.
View Bio Page

Gary Patterson
Gary Patterson has been appointed as dean of the Kate Tiedemann School of Business
               and Finance and Muma St. Petersburg campus dean effective immediately. Patterson began
               work at USF in 2000 as an assistant professor on the St. Petersburg campus.
View Bio Page

Joni Jones
Joni Jones was selected to serve as the campus dean for the Muma College of Business
               in Sarasota-Manatee. Jones is an associate professor in the School of Information
               Systems and Management who teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in systems analysis
               and design, business honors professional development, and research methods.
View Bio Page

Timothy B. Heath
Timothy B. Heath is interim dean for research and professional programs in the Muma
               College of Business, while serving as professor and Muma Fellow in the School of Marketing
               and Innovation. His research investigates issues in branding, persuasion, and innovation.
View Bio Page

Jennifer Cainas
Jennifer Cainas was promoted to associate dean for financial management and undergraduate
               programs. Cainas is the Lynn Pippenger Teaching Fellow in the Lynn Pippenger School
               of Accountancy. She has received numerous teaching awards, including the Outstanding
               Undergraduate Teaching Award at USF.
View Bio Page

Jean D. Kabongo
Jean D. Kabongo serves as associate dean for academic affairs and accreditation and
               as chief diversity officer. Kabongo has been the campus dean for the Muma College
               of Business in Sarasota-Manatee since July 2020. He is a professor of strategic management
               and entrepreneurship in the School of Marketing and Innovation and students have chosen
               Kabongo to receive the campus’ Outstanding Professor Award four times since 2015.
View Bio Page

Cihan Cobanoglu
Cihan Cobanoglu is the dean of the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management. The
               school became part of the Muma College of Business in 2020. Cobanoglu is responsible
               for providing leadership to the faculty, students and industry constituents. He is
               also serving as the Director of International Partnerships for the Muma College of
               Business.
View Bio Page

Randy Dumm
A Fulbright Scholar in Austria in 2004, Dumm also has served as a visiting professor
               at universities in Austria and Germany. His research interests include catastrophic
               risk, insurer capital structure, insurer distribution channels, demand for insurance
               and insurance product performance. 
View Bio Page

Kaushik Dutta
Kaushik Dutta has nearly 20 years of professional and research experience in the field
               of enterprise information technology infrastructure, data analytics and big data systems.
               He is the director of the School of Information Systems and Management.
View Bio Page

Doug Hughes
Doug Hughes is a professor of marketing and director of the School of Marketing &
               Innovation. He began his full-time duties in 2019, coming from the Michigan State
               University's Broad College of Business. He leads a school that includes programs in
               marketing, supply chain management, sport and entertainment management, sales, entrepreneurship
               and global business.
View Bio Page

Mark Taylor
Mark Taylor is the director in the Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy and he is
               also the Dan and Tina Johnson Distinguished Professor of Accountancy. He joined USF
               in 2019.
View Bio Page
