
Graduate Certificates
BUSINESS ANALYTICS
Fully onlineBusiness analytics skills are much in demand today. Many companies are hiring professionals
               who are trained in data analytics tools and also have domain knowledge of some functional
               area of business such as accountancy or marketing. This certificate prepares students
               for business analytics positions in organizations.
BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS
Fully online and on the Tampa CampusThe Graduate Certificate in Business Foundations provides an intensive, graduate level
               introduction to business concepts, tools, and techniques across three critical dimensions:
               decision making, measurement, and market orientation.
COMPLIANCE, RISK, AND ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING
Fully onlineThe four courses in the certificate program will provide students with a strong foundation
               in risk identification, assessment and management techniques. The program also focuses
               on providing students with knowledge regarding compliance with various rules, laws,
               and regulations affecting businesses.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Fully onlineThe Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship, offered in an inter-disciplinary framework
               through the Center for Entrepreneurship in conjunction with the Muma College of Business,
               the College of Engineering, and USF Health, offers students the opportunity to do
               graduate-level study that focuses on the various aspects of entrepreneurship.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Fully onlineHuman Resource Management skills were always needed in organizations. However, in
               the era of increasing skills shortage and war for talent, innovative strategies for
               Human Resources departments are more critical than ever to acquire and retain the
               right talent in the organization.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Offered on the Tampa campusProject management skills are increasingly gaining prominence in organizations. Getting
               projects done right, in time, and within budget can make a difference between organizational
               success and failure. Management skills are bolstered by project management expertise
               result in increased efficiency and competence.
