
Tampa Campus Student Life

The moment you take in the lush palms and warm sunshine that brightens our Tampa campus
               each day, you’ll be ready to call the University of South Florida home. We are happy
               to tell you, though, that the climate is just the beginning of what makes campus life
               at USF so vibrant.
USF is a boundless community, with a diverse population and extensive student resources.
               And as soon as you step foot on campus, you’ll feel the unique and unmistakable energy
               that characterizes student life at USF. 
Our over 44,000 students come from across the United States and more than 140 countries
               around the globe to achieve their dreams at our Tampa campus. They don’t just eat,
               sleep, study and attend class on campus. They reach higher. They collaborate, cultivate,
               engage, innovate, overcome and flourish here.
With more than 600 clubs and student organizations, plus 19 varsity sports, an active
               student government and a thriving arts scene, USF truly has something for everyone.
               You can plan the Homecoming parade, learn to dance the Tango, cheer on the Bulls at
               Raymond James Stadium, write for The Oracle, volunteer in the community and so much more! And be sure to visit our 28,000 square
               foot Recreation & Wellness Center – or its satellite locations – to work out, swim, take a group fitness class or play
               one of the 50 intramural sports offered on campus.
From concerts and basketball games in the Yuengling Center to Movies on the Lawn, celebrity lectures and gaming at the Marshall Student Center, students seize endless opportunities to make the most of their time at USF. 
“The Marshall Student Center is the place to eat, study and socialize. It allows all students from all backgrounds
               to communicate and experience USF for the university it is. I have met and created
               some of the best friends and colleagues at the MSC, and we continue to utilize all
               the benefits it offers.” – Gabriella Kubiszyn (Business Administration, ’19)
And with a flurry of new campus development, it is an exciting time to be a student
               at USF. Newly opened, state-of-the-art residence halls at The Village offer expanded housing options for incoming students and upperclassmen, while four new dining locations cater to the diverse dietary needs of our campus. The state’s first on-campus Publix Super Market opened in December 2018. With indoor and outdoor seating areas, grab-and-go prepared
               foods and easy walking access from neighboring residence halls, the new grocery store is
               a superb shopping and dining option for students.
“Getting involved presents so many opportunities to meet all kinds of amazing and
               diverse people, and it expands your knowledge of the world around you – without even
               leaving campus!” – Jade VonWerder (Arts and Sciences, ’20)
For as much as there is to do on campus, our students make the most of their time
               in Tampa Bay by exploring this vibrant, beautiful region. Whether you’re in Sarasota, St. Petersburg or Tampa, you will be minutes away from the world’s most beautiful beaches, scenic
               historic districts, world-class shopping and dynamic cultural institutions – not to
               mention Tampa’s three professional sports teams.
“Living in Tampa is such an incredible experience because the city is constantly changing
               and evolving. New, innovative businesses and restaurants are popping up every single
               day.” – Gina Rotunno (College of Arts and Sciences, ’19)
If you’re ready to forge your path here, the University of South Florida is ready
               to welcome you home!

St. Petersburg & Sarasota-Manatee Campuses
Are you a student in St. Petersburg or Sarasota-Manatee? Visit your campus website
                  for details specifically for you!

St. Petersburg Campus Student Life 
Sarasota-Manatee Campus Student Life 



