
Welcome!

Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) is an in-college program that offers
               the opportunity to become a commissioned officer in the United States Air Force (USAF)
               or United States Space Force (USSF) upon graduation.  Below are links that will provide
               more information for potential cadets. 
AFROTC Detachment 158 History
The U.S. Air Force ROTC Detachment 158 was established at the University of South
               Florida in 1982.  It is located in the CW Bill Young Hall on the campus in north Tampa,
               where it is part of the Joint Military Leadership Center.
(Current as of July 2023)

Department of the Air Force Links:

Official U.S. Air Force Website
Official U.S. Space Force Website
Air Force Recruiting
Official AFROTC Website
Holm Center
Air Force Freedom of Information Act

This Air Force ROTC Detachment 158 Website is provided as a public service by the
               University of South Florida. Information presented on the Detachment 158 Website is
               considered public information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate
               byline/photo/image credits is requested.
Information concerning visitors, use of this site is collected for analytical and
               statistical purposes, such as assessing what information is of most and least interest,
               determining technical design specifications, and identifying system performance or
               problem areas.
Raw data logs will only be used to identify individual users and their usage habits
               for authorized law enforcement investigations or national security purposes. These
               logs are scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National Archives and
               Records Administration Guidelines.
Unauthorized attempts to deny service, upload information, change information, or
               to attempt to accessa non-public site from this service are strictly prohibited and
               may be punishable under Title 18 of the U.S. Code to include the Computer Fraud and
               Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act.
