
Overview

USF AT A GLANCE

Founded: 1956
Undergraduates: 36,948
Graduate Students: 9,546
Accreditation: Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC)
Faculty & Staff: 14,980
Diversity: 45% of students are African American, American Indian, Asian, Hispanic, Native Hawaiian
                  or Other Pacific Islander, or multiracial.
New Student Countries Represented: 79

Enrollment Data as of Drop/Add Fall 2022

Welcome to the University of South Florida. Though a relatively young university,
               founded in 1956, we have rich traditions – traditions of access and opportunity for
               students, of academic excellence, of groundbreaking research, of serving our communities.
USF is situated in the vibrant and diverse Tampa Bay region, with campuses in Tampa,
               St. Petersburg and Sarasota-Manatee. Together, our campuses serve more than 50,000 students pursuing undergraduate, graduate,
               specialist and professional degrees. Across our 13 colleges, undergraduates choose
               from more than 200 majors, minors and concentrations, from business and engineering
               to the arts and USF Health.
U.S. News & World Report has ranked USF as one of the nation’s top 50 public universities
                  for five consecutive years, and in 2023 USF earned its highest ranking ever among
                  all universities public or private.
In 2023, USF became the first public university in Florida in nearly 40 years to be invited to join the Association of American Universities (AAU), a prestigious group of the leading universities in the United States and Canada. 
High-impact global research is central to USF’s mission as one of only three Preeminent
               Research Universities, as designated by the Florida Board of Governors. The Preeminence
               program rewards high-achieving universities based on 12 metrics, including graduation
               rates, student retention rates, research expenditures and the number of patents awarded.
With 123 new U.S. utility patents granted in 2020, USF is eighth among American public
               research universities and 15th among all universities worldwide in generating new
               patents. The ranking places USF as a leader among the more than 1,000 academic institutions
               generating new, novel and useful inventions granted intellectual property protection
               from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
USF’s innovation and economic development efforts produce tangible benefits across
               Florida. The university had a total economic impact of $6.02 billion in fiscal 2019-20 and supports 68,704 jobs in the state. Many of the jobs supported by USF are in high-skill,
                     high-wage, knowledge-based industries, such as life sciences, information technology
                     and financial services.
Our scholars and researchers focus on developing transformative solutions to complex
               issues facing society. Throughout the coronavirus pandemic, USF Health has been at the forefront of the Tampa Bay region’s response. Efforts have included
               working on the frontlines, producing 3D-printed nasal swabs, creating face shields for health care workers, conducting clinical trials and assisting the Florida Department of Health with contact tracing. The university also has awarded funding through a COVID-19 Rapid Response Grants
               program under the auspices of the USF Pandemic Response Research Network™ — a transdisciplinary initiative organized by university leadership and faculty researchers
               to quickly respond to current and future pandemics.
Like all great universities, USF is guided by the traditional ideals of higher education.
               But our mission, as an urban-grant university, is so much more than that of the traditional
               establishments of higher education.
At USF, we believe every student will succeed if given the opportunity. All USF students,
               regardless of their backgrounds or circumstances, succeed at the same rate. We invite
               you to explore more about our university – in person and online – and discover how
               you can prosper at the country’s fastest-rising university. At USF, excellence and
               opportunity converge.
Full list of USF facts.
