
Process Improvement
Master the skills needed to increase profits, decrease costs and improve efficiency
               with our process improvement programs. You’ll build your résumé and become an indispensable
               asset to your organization by learning how to remove waste and solve problems caused
               by business processes.
USF Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt Certification
This free program offers an introduction to one of the hottest business strategies
               in corporate America. Tools such as videos and audio-guided slides support a carefully
               guided exploration of topics ranging from the history of continuous improvement to
               empowering employees, improving processes, continuous improvement principles, methods, and
               concepts, process mapping, Kaizen and Lean. Don’t miss this self-paced online, no-cost
               program!
Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification
This program provides all the requirements needed to obtain Lean Six Sigma Green Belt
               Certification including training hours, project assessment and the exam. Lean topics
               include the concepts of the elimination of waste and reduction of cycle time in organizational
               processes. Six Sigma principles consist of problem-solving techniques, data collection
               and analysis, reduction of process variation, process capability and cost analysis.
Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification
Build upon the tools acquired in a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt program, including managing
               quality projects utilizing the fundamentals of Lean and Six Sigma methodologies. Students
               select and work on a real problem while applying learned techniques and tools to effectively
               resolve the problem and meet specified project goals. The program also explores the
               skills needed to mentor Green Belts and other team members.
USF Design Thinking Certification Powered by Stonehill Innovation 
Learn problem-solving methodology used by some of the most successful organizations
               through USF’s Design Thinking course. This course will walk you or your team through
               the 5-step process of arriving at a practical, innovative, and cost-effective solutions
               that enhance the customer experience at major touchpoints.
Process Improvement for Engineers
In this online workshop, you will gain an introduction to industry-leading continuous
               improvement principles, methods and concepts. From learning about valuable process
               improvement tools you can apply to effect change in your organization to discovering
               how to empower employees and improve team culture, this workshop will position you
               as a leader and influencer in the workplace. 
DEDICATED COHORTS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION
Dedicated cohort offerings specifically for your organization are available for these
               programs. If you have a group of 10+ participants, we can provide a dedicated session
               for your team at your convenience on a schedule that best meets your needs. You may
               also be eligible to receive a group discount. Please email David Hill at djhill4@usf.edu for information on how a dedicated cohort can be organized for your team.
