
Course Permit - For Graduate Business Classes
What is a Permit?
Many graduate-level courses are restricted for a certain time period to students in
               certain programs. After the program students have been given sufficient time to register,
               others are given the opportunity to register for open seats, if they meet the criteria
               required to take the course. To obtain permission to take the course, you must request
               a permit.
Other courses are restricted due to pre-requisite requirements requiring a permit to register. In some cases, a message in Schedule Planner indicates a permit is required. In
               other cases, students will receive an error message stating "Pre-Reg/Test Score Error,"
               or "Class Restriction."
Limited-Access Programs
Note that courses in certain limited-access programs are not available to students
               outside of those programs at all. These restrictions are clearly stated in the Schedule
               Planner. If you request a permit for those course sections, you will receive an automated
               response that indicates that you requested a permit for a section that is fully restricted
               and, thus, your request has been denied.
Who Should Complete this Form?
This form is only to be used by the following students:

Muma College of Business graduate students taking graduate courses (5000 level or
                  above) to be used toward their graduate degree
Muma College of Business MS in BAIS students taking the pre-requisites for the BAIS
                  program (ISM 3113, ISM 3232, ISM 4212, and ISM 4930)
Graduate students in degree programs and certificate programs in other colleges who
                  wish to take courses in the Muma College of Business.
Non-degree-seeking students who wish to take graduate-level Muma College of Business
                  courses




Undergraduate?
If you are seeking an undergraduate course permit for any other Muma College of Business courses, please go to the correct site as
                     follows: 

Tampa campus course
St. Petersburg campus course
Sarasota-Manatee campus course


 


Important Info

It is your responsibility to confirm that the course you are requesting a permit for
                  will count toward your degree. Prior to submitting this request, ask your advisor
                  if the course will count toward your degree.
All permit requests are subject to review, approval, and availability. Completion
                  of this form does not guarantee you a seat in the course section you are requesting
                  a permit for. It is wise to have a backup plan.
We recommend requesting the permit as soon as you know you want to take the course,
                  to be earlier in the queue.
Some course sections are restricted to limited access and/or cohort-based programs. Permits
                  will not be issued for these sections unless you are in the applicable program. (OMBA,
                  EMBA, EBAIS, SEM, INTO)
You must submit a permit request form for each course for which you need a permit.
After completion of this survey, you will receive an email confirming the request
                  was received. Allow up to two hours for the confirmation email to arrive.



Request Graduate Course Permit

Timeline for Permit Issuance
If a permit will be granted, it will be issued based on the following schedule for Summer
               and Fall 2022 courses:


April 18 - summer permits for other Muma and certificate students


May 2 - summer permits for other populations


Aug 1 - fall permits for Muma and certificate students


Aug 15 - fall permits for other populations


If you have any questions, please contact the person listed in the confirmation email
               you will receive.
