
Dirk Libaers

John and Beverly Grant Endowed Professor of Entrepreneurship & Director, Nault Center
                  for Entrepreneurshipdlibaers@usf.eduRoom: BSN 3333Phone: 813-974-7820Vita
Dirk P. Libaers is the John and Beverly Grant Endowed Chair in Entrepreneurship and
               the director of the USF Nault Center for Entrepreneurship at the Muma College of Business.
               He teaches courses in Strategies in Technology Entrepreneurship, Global Entrepreneurship,
               and Creativity and Design in the School of Marketing and Innovation. He was a visiting
               professor at the University of Kent and the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom
               and the University of Queensland in Australia. He currently is visiting professor
               at the University of Vaasa in Finland.
His research interests include technology and academic entrepreneurship, new product
               and service development in new ventures and established firms, and issues related
               to creativity and innovation. His work has been published in the Strategic Management Journal, Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, Journal of Product Innovation Management, Research Policy, the Journal of Business Venturing, R&D Management and Industrial and Corporate Change. He has written book chapters, edited books and presented papers at numerous conferences
               in the United States and abroad.
Libaers earned a PhD in public policy from the Georgia Institute of Technology and
               a master's degree from the University of Sussex. He earned an MBA from George Washington
               University and a bachelor's degree from Vrije Universiteit Brussel.
Teaching

ENT 6126 Strategies in Technology Entrepreneurship
ENT 6619 Creativity & Design (spring)
ENT 6706 Global Entrepreneurship

Research

Pervun, K., Libaers, D, & Sutton, N (2023) From athletes to entrepreneurs: Participation
                  in youth sports as a precursor to future business endeavors Journal of Small Business Management (forthcoming)

Canavati, S., Libaers, D, Wang, T., Sarooghi, H, & Hooshangi, S. (2021) The relationship
                     between human capital, new venture ideas and opportunity beliefs: A meta-analysis.
                     Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal (forthcoming)


Kiss, A.N., and Libaers, D, Barr, P., Wang, T, Zachary, M. (2020) CEO cognitive flexibility,
                     information search behaviors and organizational ambidexterity. Strategic Management Journal, 41(12): 2200-2233.


Meyer, M., J. Cassis, O. Osiyevskyy, D. Libaers (2020) Implementing Product Platforms
                     in a Global Enterprise: Lessons from a LED Industry Leader. Business Horizons, 63(4): 421-434.


Meyer, M., O. Osiyevskyy, Libaers, D., Van der Vught, M (2018) Does product platforming
                     pay off? Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(1): 66-87



view more


“University Transfer and Academic Entrepreneurship,” World Scientific Publishers:
                        Singapore. The World Scientific Reference on Innovation - Volume 1, with D. Dunlap., (2018).
"The Paradox of Openness: How Product and Patenting Experience Affect External R&D
                        Sourcing in China," Journal of Product Innovation Management, with Wang, T. and Park, H.D., (2017).
"Non-Imitative Knowledge and Innovation Performance: Empirical Evidence From New Ventures
                        in Developing Countries," Journal of Product Innovation Management, with Wang T., (2016).
"A Taxonomy of Small Firm Technology Commercialization," Industrial and Corporate Change, with Hicks, D. and Porter A.L., (2016).



Service

Regular reviewer, Research Policy, the Journal of Product Innovation Management, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, the Journal of Business Venturing and Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice.
Member, doctoral committees of several USF DBA students
Program Coordinator, MS in Entrepreneurship & Applied Technologies
Adviser, Student Innovation Incubator, University of South Florida
Adviser, numerous startups housed in the Northeastern University IDEA Incubator, the
                  screening committee for USF Connect, Student Innovation Incubator


