
Marketing and Innovation Practice Center

view flyer

Goals

To provide experiential learning for our students within the School of Marketing and
                  Innovation.
To engage faculty members in meaningful ways with different businesses and organizations
                  within the Greater Tampa Bay and Sarasota-Manatee county regions.
To provide local businesses and organizations with a real solution to an issue or
                  problem that they face within the areas associated with the program.

Executive Summary
The Marketing and Innovation Practice Center project is available across all three
               campuses and supervised by faculty members from all three campuses. The center gives
               students new skills and experiences with "real world" projects sponsored by industry
               partners. Students work in groups of two performing collaborative team-based projects.
               Every project is supervised by at least one faculty mentor and at least one representative
               of the project-sponsoring industry partner. Projects typically last one semester.
               Based on a project's outcome or the nature of the project, an industry partner may
               choose to sponsor the next phase or a new project for an additional semester. Some
               flexibility is built into this program for situations where the project start date
               cannot coincide with the start of the semester, or where industry partners require
               students to work on multiple projects. However, the selection of projects should be
               based on some learning objectives. There is also some flexibility as to the location
               where students complete project work (at the USF campus and/or sponsoring industry
               partner facilities).
Benefits
Participating students gain valuable experience along with earning possible stipend
               and credits.The program will offer a unique skillset beyond the classroom to make
               the students more marketable for the internships and careers. These students become
               more competitive in the job market, and are noticed by sponsoring industry partners.
               Acquiring internships often poses a challenge for international students due to restrictions
               with student visas regarding paid work. Participating students also benefit from the
               mentoring provided by School of Marketing and Innovation faculty and industry representatives
               supervising respective projects. Faculty members benefit by applying their knowledge to "real world" problems, while
               at the same time maintaining currency in their practice skills. They also learn about
               industry problems, technology solutions, and issues, which they can bring to the classroom,
               and to their research.
The business partners benefit in several ways. First, they have the opportunity to
               work with top-quality business analytics and information systems students in order
               to create solutions to projects that benefit them, while leveraging the expertise
               of top faculty members. Companies are able to engage and observe students perform
               projects for future consideration of full-time employment, reducing the cost of recruitment.
Offerings

Marketing Research
Digital Marketing
Business Development
CMSI Lab
Marketing Audit
Event Marketing
Marketing Promotions

Operations
The center is supported by the industry partners who benefit from the services performed.
Projects are accepted on a rolling basis. It is generally the most beneficial for
               companies to plan for a September-December or January-April timeline. Please allow
               a period of 6-8 weeks prior to starting for setup. Applications may come from companies,
               faculty, or students themselves.
Participants must be USF students and are selected based on GPA, skill sets, and the
               availability of projects. Honors students are encouraged to apply as project work
               could be part of a honors thesis, subject to the terms of the non-disclosure agreements.
Partners
Marketing and Innovation Practice Center Partner: $6,200- $16,000 per semester

Provides funding for two students for 5-20 hours per week per student (15 weeks).
Funds faculty supervision and research throughout the semester for the students and
                  for the partner

Note for all Practice Center Partners
All required paperwork, including the signing of non-disclosure agreements as required
               by the project partners, and documents as required by USF, must be completed before
               the start of the semester. Also, students are employed by USF, and therefore USF manages
               the payroll processing for students.
Contact


Loran Jarrettloranjarrett@usf.edu



Contact the practice center


