
Arts and Culture


                  				College of The Arts Events
                  			
The College of The Arts proudly features our students, faculty and guest artists in
                  over 400 stage productions, concerts, exhibitions and lectures each year. See the
                  event calendar to plan your next visit.


                        					College of The Arts Events
                        				 




                  				Contemporary Art Museum
                  			
The Contemporary Art Museum, located on the Tampa campus, presents significant exhibitions
                  of contemporary art from around the world and maintains the university's art collection,
                  comprised of more than 5,000 works. Explore current and past exhibitions and learn
                  about upcoming events.


                        				Contemporary Art Museum
                        			 




                  				Graphicstudio
                  			
Graphicstudio is a world-renowned research atelier on the Tampa campus. Over 100 leading
                  international contemporary artists have created more than 600 limited edition fine
                  art works at the studio in collaboration with the university's master printers. See
                  the artists and their work.


                        				Graphicstudio
                        			 




                  				Centre Gallery
                  			
Centre Gallery is a free, student-run exhibition space in the Marshall Student Center
                  on the Tampa campus, showcasing innovative, contemporary art. Explore the current
                  show and past exhibitions.


                        					Centre Gallery
                        				 




                  				Botanical Gardens
                  			
Explore a living collection of more than 3,000 plants, animals and natural habitats
                  on the southwest corner of the Tampa campus. The gardens attract more than 35,000
                  visitors annually and house ongoing research projects. Learn more.


                        					Botanical Gardens
                        				 




                  				Public Art
                  			
The Public Art program at USF's Tampa campus has worked with many of the nation’s
                  most prominent public artists to enhance the aesthetics and cultural life of our campus
                  by developing responsive works of art for display in various gathering places inside
                  and between the buildings on campus. Browse through the gallery of works to learn
                  more.


                        					Public Art Program
                        				 




                  				St. Petersburg & Sarasota-Manatee Campuses
                  			
Our campus in St. Petersburg is nestled in the heart of a lively downtown, and our
                  Sarasota-Manatee campus is part of a renowned local arts and cultural scene. Visit
                  our campus websites for specific information on arts and cultural activities near
                  you.


                        					St. Petersburg Campus
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus
                        				 


