
Human Resources

Whether you’re a new HR manager or a seasoned professional, USF’s HR management courses
               provide the skills and credentials you need to succeed in this demanding profession.
Distinguish yourself as an expert with our HR management certificate programs or take
               individual HR courses to fill any gaps in your skill set and stay up to date in the
               field.All HR courses are exclusively taught by industry veterans and consultants who live
               what they teach — so you’ll get high quality instruction and skills that work in the
               real world.
Human Resources Management Certificate
Gain a comprehensive, practical foundation in human resources. This program is ideal
               for new HR professionals transitioning into the field, managers with HR responsibilities,
               experienced HR professionals seeking to update their skills and SHRM-certified professionals
               seeking to earn recertification credit. Topics include an introduction to HR management,
               fundamentals of compensation, HR data-based decision making, business acumen, HR performance
               and risk management, talent acquisition and human resources law.
SHRM Essentials of Human Resources
This introductory course offers a comprehensive overview of human resources roles
               and responsibilities and covers a wide range of introductory HR topics in a condensed,
               straightforward format. Up-to-date, easy-to-understand content ensures that you master
               HR concepts and apply them to everyday situations and issues. Increase your on-the-job
               confidence, understand your organization's complex HR issues and stay up-to-date on
               the latest HR laws and regulations.
SHRM Certified Professional or Senior Certified Professional
Acquire the knowledge needed to sit for the SHRM-CP or SHRM-SCP exam from an approved
               SHRM provider! Experienced instructors lead participants through the SHRM Learning
               System, historically ranked as the No. 1 HR certification prep tool. Choose between
               several modalities. 
DEDICATED COHORTS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION
Dedicated cohort offerings specifically for your organization are available for these
               programs. If you have a group of 10+ participants, we can provide a dedicated session
               for your team at your convenience on a schedule that best meets your needs. You may
               also be eligible to receive a group discount. Please email David Hill at djhill4@usf.edu for information on how a dedicated cohort can be organized for your team.



 

The University of South Florida Office of Corporate Training and Professional Education
               is recognized by SHRM to offer Professional Development Credits (PDCs) for SHRM-CP®
               or SHRM-SCP® recertification activities.
