
Academic Resources


                  				Academic Advising
                  			
Contact an academic advisor in your college, learn how to declare or change your major,
                  find out about counseling services available to students, view a registration tutorial
                  and more.


                        					Tampa Campus Advising
                        				 

                        					St. Petersburg Campus Advising
                        				 

                        					Sarasota-Manatee Campus Advising
                        				 




                  				Academic Success
                  			
Take advantage of academic support services including tutoring, workshops, academic
                  coaching, writing help, and more to enhance learning. Find out about services and
                  opportunities available through the Academic Success Center located on the 2nd floor
                  of the Tampa campus Library Learning Commons.


                        				Tampa Campus Tutoring Services
                        			 

                        				Writing Studio at Tampa Campus
                        			 

                        				SMART Lab at Tampa Campus
                        			 

                        				St. Petersburg Campus Resources
                        			 

                        				Sarasota-Manatee Campus Resources
                        			 




                  				Innovative Education
                  			
Innovative Education meets the needs of learners any time and any place through innovative
                  distance learning, continuing education, degree completion, certificate, workforce
                  development, lifelong learning and pre-college programs.


                        					Innovative Education
                        				 




                  				Testing Services
                  			
Testing Services administers comprehensive testing including the ACT, SAT, CLEP, GRE,
                  LSAT, Six Sigma, Florida Teacher Certification and more. Find out about test schedules
                  and programs.


                        					Testing Services
                        				 




                  				USF Scholar Commons
                  			
The University of South Florida Scholar Commons, a service of the Tampa campus library,
                  is a showcase for the university’s research and creative output. Members of the USF
                  academic community contribute completed scholarship for long-term preservation and
                  worldwide electronic accessibility.


                        					USF Scholar Commons
                        				 


